L01-01
May Grey: Come in, Shuzo. What's cooking?
Takahashi Shuzo: I just finished talking with Ben about my possible departure from the company. He said I should see you and get your advice and counsel.
Grey: Oh, no, Shuzo. You of all people. Naturally, I don't want you to go, but first tell me what the game plan is
Takahashi: All right, here's the story. I've received an offer to join Brightwell Farms, a leading food company based in Los Angeles. It seems like an opportunity too good to pass up. I'd be in charge of external relations for all of North America,
Grey: Would you benefit financially? Maybe we could match their offer
Takahashi: The monetary package is only slightly better, but I'll have a chance to see things from the client's side. What I'll be able to learn and experience firsthand makes this offer very tempting to me
Grey: What would be your next move?
Takahashi: I've already been interviewed by their HR head in New York and they're going to fly me to the West Coast to see their operations including their restaurant business. But until I sign up, the deal isn't final. I'm being open about the situation because I don't want to burn my bridges. After all, I may decide to be another boomerang employee.

L01-02
Grey: I appreciate that. On the surface, it sounds like an interesting opportunity to me. However, I must take on the role of devil's advocate. Is this a new position with them?
Takahashi: That's what I understand.
Grey: Why can't they recruit in-house? Have you any idea what the corporate culture is like? Do they dismiss people left and right?
Takahashi: Frankly, I know little about their corporate culture, but I was told that they were most interested in my background as a licensed dietitian working on both the client and agency sides in Japan and the U.S
Grey: That I can understand, but knowing their culture is quite important. Be sure before you go on board that you know what to expect.
Takahashi: I see what you mean. I'm eager to find out how the compan functions. What's their culture like in real life?
Grey: Sure. Don't be afraid to ask candid questions and be prepared cope with evasive answers.
Takahashi: While I'm visiting headquarters, I've been promised a talk with the actual team I would supervise. We'll talk off-campus, somewhere like a quiet cafe where we can relax and level with each other.
Grey: I'll feed you some pertinent questions. Are they satisfied with the jobs or not? If so, why? If not, why not?

L01-03
Grey: Are they compatible as ateam or competing behind each other's backs? Give them a chance to get to know you too. Talk about your business experience in Japan and here at MarshEg. You can even ask them what kind of boss they consider ideal. You may get some fascinating feedback.
Takahashi: Thanks, May. I can think of some other questions. Does the company have a strong family feeling that dates back to its beginning? What's the employee turnover in yearly numbers?
Grey: Good. Find out about amenities as well. A major corporation like Brightwell Farms, I'm sure, has its own fitness center on the premises.
Takahashi: I'll add some questions about special discounts on company products for employees. What else comes to mind? How about tuition support for my kids?
Grey: Not a bad idea, but let's demolish one assumption that some people have. They tend to suppose that a giant company with a long success may be sitting on its laurels. People sit back at their desks and collect their pay with little effort. From what I've heard, that not how it is at Brightwell.
Takahashi: You're right, and I know that the food business is fiercely competitive and constant innovation is the top priority. So nobody's dozing. New product and merchandising ideas and shaking things up are what people get paid for.

L01-04
Grey: If you're lucky, top management dotes on employees who are delighted to take risks and win big in a dog-eat-dog marketplace.
Takahashi: I can live with that. Dean Reid has his kind of pioneer spirit, and I have mine. That's what I thrive on.
Grey: Money matters, but what matters most is job satisfaction. I've noticed that some people are so eager to get a bigger paycheck that they job-hop only for more money. And then what happens? The bigger the income, the more they tend to spend in conspicuous consumption as they scramble up the ladder. In the end, they do no more thar continue to break even. That's not for me, Shuzo. From what you've said so far, I suspect you feel quite the same. Is that true?
Takahashi: Money is important, of course, but it's the chance to change and grow in a higher position of greater responsibility and challenge that has my tongue hanging out.
Grey: I'm simply pointing out that doing what you're best at can be far more important than a higher stack of greenbacks. That's why I want you focused on job satisfaction. Do we see eye to eve on that?
Takahashi: Yes, we do. I'Il ask for more of your advice and guidance as I consider my final decision after I've talked with the team.
Grey: Go for it. Last but far from least, remember that our door is wide open if you want to come back here. Good luck.
Takahashi: Thanks. I'll definitely need that.

L02-01
Sandra Greene: Hi. Good morning. I'm Sandra Greene, senior vice president in charge of internal and external relations. Call me Sandra.
Takahashi Shuzo: I'm Shuzo. Very pleased to meet you, Sandra
Greene: How's your experience so far? I hope you're having a good time.
Takahashi: I'm just overwhelmed. I thought I was invited to visit headquarters to talk to you, as well as prospective team members, but instead I was first taken on a tour of the Brightwell Home for families of seriously ill children, Cookie World, the original Brightwell family farm and the brand new corporate fitness center, with a lunch stop at the flagship restaurant near Anaheim.
Greene: We believe that's the best way to demonstrate our culture, background and values. Did you like what you saw?
Takahashi: Definitely. I thought the atmosphere was congenial and open. I was very impressed by your outreach programs for community service.
Greene: That's excellent. Our corporate culture is a mixture of old-fashioned virtues and shrewd business practices. Informality pervades the company. Everybody's on a first-name basis here. This down-home atmosphere is more pronounced in the plants, where you often see spouses or two or three generations of family members working side by side.

L02-02
Takahashi: I was told that the gleaming new fitness center is available to all employees and their spouses free of charge. You also give dependent children of deceased employees up to $5,000 a year for college tuition.
Greene: Yes, I'd say were a fairly benevolent employer. People tend to join Bright well Parms and stay for life. However, in recent times we have become a bit bloated and uncompetitive. Our new CEO, who started out 25 years ago selling Brightwell ice cream, wants to turn things around by focusing on nutrition.
Takahashi: What will the core message be for all markets?
Greene: Food and drink dedicated to promoting health and fitness. Many of our products have already been modified and lab-tested to fit the nutrition, health and wellness image.
Takahashi: There's a budding market for such products. One of the recent campaigns we launched at MarshEg was focused on more nutrition-based food and drink in a nationwide fast food chain. Fresh fruit and vegetables in nutritious salads were added to the menu. The promotion was an instant success.
Greene: That's what we're anticipating. As one of the world's largest food and drink producers, Brightwell Farms is scrutinized by industry regulators. We can't grow in some of our core markets because of regulatory roadblocks. Accordingly, we must change our marketing strategy to make headway.

L02-03
Takahashi: Are you field-testing any of the new product lines?
Greene: Not yet, but yogurt will be among the first to go on sale. In the meantime, we've completed a great deal of cost-cutting by centralizing our operations around the world and putting in place a system that feeds vital information to our senior directors. All of that has saved us millions of dollars. 
Takahashi: What else is happening in the company?
Greene: We're doing a major overhaul of our cookie business. As you know, the cookie market is crumbling in this country. It's not that people don't love cookies anymore.
Takahashi: Many today worry about what's in cookies.
Greene: Right. One leading reason is that consumers understand cookies to be loaded with fats, sugar and carbohydrates.
Even children, who once crunched cookies as a favorite snack food, have turned their thumbs down.
Takahashi: Well, if we all ate carrots all day long, we'd be pretty boring people. I learned at Cookie World that cookie makers, including Brightwell, are touting "portion control" with 100-calorie single-serve packs. The new strategy seems to be working.
Greene: Yes. We're also working on coming up with cookies that taste good but contain essential nutrients, especially those for growing children.

L02-04
Takahashi: I see. I've read that Brightwell Farms has an excellent reputation and is on the list of the best companies to work for in America. Why is that?
Greene: Why indeed. Wages and benefits are well above the norm in our industry. Our worldwide communications network is among the best. Our labs and production plants have won many industrial awards. Our workers, in all callings, are treated as members of an extended international family. I could go on and on.
Takahashi: A good profit margin is one measure of a good company. Recently, however, there has been a clamor for good companies to be socially responsible. What's Brightwell Farms' stance on that?
Greene: It's certainly a loaded question. On the one hand, our investors expect to profit from their stock holdings. On the other we wish to be a respected member of the community. We do have staff specialists who address social issues in our community goodwill program. You'll be talking to them later on this tour. Make sure you put those questions to them. 
Takahashi: Great. I look forward to meeting the team of people whom I may be assigned to work with. At Marshall Egler I learned about the importance of having compatible team members. I want to be sure that will happen here at Brightwell Farms.
Greene: Consider it done. I hope you like our company and make up your mind to join us.

L03-01
Takahashi Shuzo: First of all, let me thank you for joining me this evening. I've been looking forward to meeting you. By way of self introduction, my name is Takahashi Shuzo. For over 10 years I worked for a major fast-food company in Japan. I'm actually a licensed nutritionist, but spent a lot of time at the company's test kitchen, developing new products, such as avocado and papaya taste treats, and putting together press announcements. About a year ago, I joined Marshall Egler in New York, working in the Food and Nutrition Division. I've just received an offer to join Brightwell Farms.
Ida Fine: Nice to meet you, Shuzo. I'm Ida Fine. In the past, we've worked in close association with MarshEg's LA office in designing and implementing promotional campaigns. We've already heard that you may be joining us. Have you made up your mind yet?
Takahashi: No, but I've been accused by Sandra Greene of giving lots of positive signs-just short of uttering the word "yes." Actually, that's the key reason for having this chat. I'd like to assure myself, and you, that we can work together as a congenial team.
Paul Alvarez: I see. I'm Paul Alvarez, born and raised in Florida and now at home on the West Coast. I joined this team two years ago, and some of my work is in Spanish-language campaigns aimed at the Hispanic population.

L03-02
Alvarez: Id like to ask what sort of team you worked with in New York. Was that a congenial team?
Takahashi: For me, at first, it was an exercise in culture shock. Where I come from, discussions may be heated, but they're still pitched at a low key. At MarshEg, the brainstorming sessions were more like thunderstorms. People shouted, pounded their chests, stamped their feet and chewed the scenery.
Cora Heinrichs: Greetings. I'm Cora Heinrichs, and I can relate to that since I'm an actor in community theater. On stage, we use a lot of body language, as well as our voices, to communicate a play to the audience. How did you cope with that kind of behavior off stage?
Takahashi: At first I didn't. I stayed calm and laid back. After a while, though, I realized that to be more effective, I need to leave behind my Japanese self and really make an effort to be part of the American team. From there on, it got easier.
David Wu: I can identify with that. I'm David Wu, originally from Hong Kong. At college here in California I majored in public relations. Soon after graduation, I married a Chinese-American and now live in Chinatown here. A new team leader means another transition. I'm wondering how you picture us as a coherent team under your leadership.
Takahashi: First off, this is quite a diversified group.

L03-03
Takahashi: I think it's important for us to agree that, although we'll agree and disagree at different times, we need to be passionate about problem-solving. We can commit to hard work but still raise the roof now and then and have a lot of fun together. I know that the achievements of an organization are the result of the combined efforts of each individual.
Wu: On the other hand, one of the things I like here in this country is that sharp-minded nonconformists who aren't comfortable in a corporate environment can exercise the wide-open option to play Lone Ranger as go-for-broke entrepreneurs.
Takahashi: I understand, David, that much the same thing is happening these days in mainland China. A whole new generation of entrepreneurs is boosting the Chinese economy higher and higher. As for me, I prefer a corporate culture where people work in close-knit teams.
Fine: All of us here value teamwork. In fact, Sandra demands teamwork.
No one person is in charge of anything all alone. We're expected to keep our eyes and ears open to new ideas and input from each other.
Alvarez: Successful teamwork is recognized and rewarded. Those people who do well as team players at Brightwell are the ones who win promotions. We also have a 360-degree feedback system to ensure that individual performance is recognized within the teamwork ethic.

L03-04
Takahashi: Your motivation and enthusiasm are quite apparent. I do love team that doesn't mind hard work. It won't seem to be hard work if it's done in a spirit of having fun. We'll have a lot of fun together. I guarantee it.
Fine: What aspect of Brightwell Farms is most attractive to you, Shuzo?
Takahashi: Health and fitness is a gut issue for me, like most people in America. Given my background in nutrition and public relations, I think I can make a real contribution to the company. I understand Brightwell's upcoming worldwide campaign will be "better nutrition for a better future." I like that very much. I think you're doing pioneering work in a new era of food promotion.
Fine: Yes, we're always looking for new concepts. Another upcoming new campaign is dubbed "Lunch with Punch." It features lessons in correct table manners as one aspect of business success. The campaign is aimed at college seniors.
Takahashi: How interesting!
Wu: If you decide to join us, we'll prep you on that program. Either way, please come by and let us know whether your decision is either no or let's go.
Fine: We don't want to pressure you, though. Take your time.
Takahashi: Well, I actually think my mind is already pretty much made up.

L04-01
Takahashi Suzo: Dean, it's good to see you again. How's your dad doing?
Dean Reid: Fine, thank you. He's made a great recovery. He grumbles about the daily medications he still needs to take, but my mother makes sure he downs every dose. Hey, I heard over the grapevine that you're talking to Brightwell Parms here in Los Angeles. How's it going? Have you decided to jump ship?
Takahashi: I spent the last few days touring Brightwell's facilities and talking to a lot of people inside and outside the company. I immensely like what I hear and see, so I've decided to sign on. We'll start packing up as soon as I get back to New York and plan to be back here next month to spend Christmas in LA.
Reid: Well, congratulations on your decision. I'm sure it's a good move for you and full of new challenges. We'll be able to get together from time to time to compare notes.
Takahashi: Sure. Let's plan on that. But tell me about your new career.
Reid: I'm laying the groundwork for business opportunities. That'll jell in due course. In the meantime, I'm freelancing as a blog editor for a major network of blogs to bring in immediate income
Takahashi: Oh? What do you write about?
Reid: I've got a contracy with the network operator to post a dozen daily items about the food industry.

L04-02
Reid: My "Food for Thought" site draws over a million visitors a month. For that I'm paid a flat monthly fee, but if I manage to generate spikes in traffic, I get a bonus as well. I'd like you to be one of my key information sources inside Brightwell Farms, if you will.
Takahashi: Of course, I'Il be happy to help you, Dean. I recall, though, that MarshEg was about to launch a new service that gives advice on how to use the growing roster of online and wireless media. Is that happening and are you in the loop?
Reid: It is and I am. I'm part of MarshEg's virtual team, and I got my first assignment last week from the LA office. I've been asked to take part in a communications audit for a major West Coast financial institution to assess how new media tools, including blogs, podcasts and mobile marketing, can complement their existing public relations programs. I'm very excited about that.
Takahashi: I'm glad to know that, Dean. Your blog editing job fits in very nicely with the audit project. Both have to do with understanding and using emerging media tools. In this digital age, we must learn how to integrate these new technologies to deliver the right message to the right people at the right moment.
Reid: Yes, but there's also a lot of anxiety about how to incorporate them into traditional communications activities.
Takahashi: Right. Some people even predict that blogging could displace mainstream media from newspapers to news broadcasts.

L04-03
Takahashi: Do you subscribe to that view?
Reid: I don't. There were similar predictions that radio, and then later on TV newscasts, spelled doom for newspapers and magazines. That didn't happen. At the moment, the battle that's raging is on a much different front. The blogosphere is under attack for lacking ethical guidelines. Much of the so-called blog news is too opinionated or even misleading. What counts most is how many visits it draws.
Takahashi: It's a sad fact that bad news draws more flies.to the sites than wholesome news does. That's always been true of the tabloids.
Reid: To be fair, it's clear that blogging is at its best when used for marketing and promotion opportunities. It can also give unknown writers with talent a chance to become household names. Basically, it's nothing new. It's just the latest twist in Internet media.
Takahashi: That's a fact. It's also true, however, that bloggers are getting to be influential. They've been showing up at national political conventions, at the World Economic Forum at Davos and on the cover of major business publications. White House press passes have been issued to bloggers too.
Reid: As their influence continues to grow, we can expect to see increasing public pressure on them to be accountable for the stories they post.
Takahashi: Many pay scant attention to journalistic ethics.

L04-04
Takahashi: Most of them don't even claim to be journalists, so they see no need for a set of rules.
Reid: On the other hand, quite apart from questionable blogs, there are blogs that are meant to be helpful in dealing with medical problems.
Takahashi: Yes, I've come across numerous such blogs. Exchanging treatment info may be a great idea, but patients shouldn't pretend to be medical experts.
Reid: I agree. I like the blogs that are sponsored and monitored by medical institutions. Patients are encouraged to share their experiences with one another, but doctors and registered nurses warn contributing patients not to recommend particular drugs or treatment programs.
Takahashi: To my mind, a supervised blog is a godsend to doctors and patients alike. It's a giant step away from the hundreds of chaotic disease-related Web chat rooms and message boards that aren't overseen or regulated by medical professionals.
Reid: Anyone's story about a personal health problem and treatment scheme is no more than a clinical study from one patient. It has no universal significance. Still and all, I hope these sites can evolve into forums that will carry info that's been screened, filtered and understood to be reliable by medical overseers.
Takahashi: In the long run, we all look forward to that kind of solid advice and guidance.

L05-01
Sandra Greene: Shuzo, now that you've had a couple of weeks to settle in, are you comfortable with your situation?
Takahashi Shuzo: Yes, I am, thanks. Ida has been very helpful. Paul,
Cora and David are more than capable. I feel confident that we can work together superbly.
Greene: Excellent. I'm really glad to hear that, Shuzo. What are you working on now?
Takahashi: The thing that struck me on my first day of work was how much clutter there is. Paper's flowing out of everybody's drawers and cabinets. I'm sure much of it can be discarded. So I got the team together and suggested any internal clean-up campaign. That's my first project at Brightwell Farms.
Greene: Sounds intriguing. Give me some general idea of the problem we have.
Takahashi: OK. When we went into the personal computer age, we looked forward to a paperless future. That hasn't happened. Paper consumption is going up, not down.
Ida Fine: That's right. In spite of computer storage, we still count on paper for record-keeping. Much of that paper may date back 10 or 15 years, but we can't stand to get rid of it.
Greene: I see what you're getting at. Someone coined the word stuffaholism to account for that mentality. It crosses many borders and generations.

L05-02
Paul Alvarez: There's always someone who hates to get rid of paper because it might be useful some day.
Takahashi: I once worked with an out-of- control stuffaholic who wanted to make copies of everything we were getting rid of, just in case it was needed in the future.
Greene: [Laughing] You've got to be joking.
Takahashi: At MarshEg we called it the pack-rat attitude. To combat that, we observed a paper chase day. Once a year, everybody came in on a Saturday for clean-up action.
Greene: On a weekend?
Takahashi: Yes, but in recompense, we all got an extra day off in summer. You can't be answering client phone calls when you need to focus on culling stuff. It actually started off as a fun event. At the end of the day, we celebrated the demise of old files with pizza and beer. We even gave a special prize to the person who tossed out the most paper.
Fine: That should encourage everyone to hoard even more paper for the next time. Laughter] I'd give an award to the person who can come up with an effective filing system.
Greene: I get the drift. It embarrasses me to admit I've got files stuffed in a couple of office cubbyholes that seem to date back to the creation of the world. I itch to get rid of them. On the other hand, what if I ditch something of historical value that should be hallowed in our corporate archives?

L05-03
Fine: If in doubt, don't throw it out. Set it aside with a question mark plan a later review.
Alvarez: So far we've done a preliminary survey of old files and found that roughly 90 percent can be classified as absolute junk or is at least questionable.
Takahashi: You have to ask yourself three questions. What should be incinerated? What should be warehoused for future decision? What should be archived? If it's worth keeping, it's copied on scanner, preserved on digital disks and kept on record accordingly.
Fine: Wed like to carry out a pilot project in our department, and pending its outcome, might want to do it elsewhere in the company. We can proceed by copycatting MarshEg's program. First off, we take their tips on how to manage info and clean up clutter.
Takahashi: The first tip is being able to put your finger on the info you need at your fingertips. My former boss used to say that if you don't know where a document is, it might as well not exist. How can you draw a bead on it and access it instantly? To do that, you need to put it into categories and set up checklists to store it.
Greene: I like this idea very much. My late grandmother, who passed away at age 99, was the organizing role model in the family. She was extremely well-organized, so much so that she knew exactly what she had and where everything was. Everything was in its place. Too bad I didn't inherit those genes myself.

L05-04
Takahashi: Filing isn't just a clerical function. Managers should also understand how the system works. If it's set up properly, we shouid be able to retrieve any piece of paper from the office files within three minutes.
Greene: Yes, you're right, Shuzo. File retrieval shouldn't be a guessing game. Somewhere I read that there's a close correlation between promotability and neat desks.
Fine: I'll buy that. I think we should review files at least once a year and weed them out if we see no good reason to keep them on active status
Greene: On the other hand, it's wise to cling to files related to stuff we re still doing. Maybe we can stuff some of that info into storage, but we may want to refer to it in future, so we can't just dump it indiscriminately into boxes. We'd end up continually reinventing the wheel.
Alvarez: At times, deciding what to do with stuff can be a tough call. When in doubt about whether to keep or not, it helps me to think out loud. What on earth could I use it for in the future? When and how would I possibly need it? What could come about if I don't have it close to hand?
Takahashi: Those are key questions we'll be wrestling with as we go through the keep-or-kill process that leads to a successful paper chase day



L06-01
Takahashi Shuzo: I was quite impressed with the outcome of last year's "Sleep Well, Do Well" campaign aimed at schoolchildren. Last night I went over the summary report on the program that you all had a hand in devising and implementing. Congratulations to all of you.
Ida Fine: We learned a great deal working with pediatricians, health officials and sleep experts. Our public service announcements also got a lot of mileage.
Takahashi: Yeah, I see that more than 500 media highlighted the campaign resulting in exposures worth 3.5 million in advertising dollars. That's amazing
Cora Heinrichs: Many schoolchildren, who are our important customers are suffering from a lack of adequate sleep. As a result, they feel frustrated and irritable. That and not paying attention in class affects their schoolwork. The campaign's basic message is how and why to get more sleep. Better grades and behavior in school rated rewards.
Paul Alvarez: In addition to the collaborating teachers and PTA moms and dads, we spread the message through our restaurant chain. Sleep is critical to children's health, development and top performance in schoolrooms, as well as in indoor and outdoor sports. On the West Coast we extended a Spanish-language campaign to schools in Hispanic communities.

L06-02
David Wu: The campaign was very successful, but I doubt that's the reason for this meeting. I take it that something new has come up. Is that it?
Takahashi: Quite right. Feedback has included many requests for a similar campaign directed at adults. All across the country, most of us are not getting enough sleep. In recent sleep research, scientists have linked lack of sleep to hormone activity. I've run off a briefing handout for you that paints that picture.
Fine: Uh-huh. It could explain why so many Americans who are chronically sleep-deprived are also overweight. See how sleepy college kids, new parents or shift workers pack on pounds? If that's scientifically true, sleep might be part of the solution to Americals obesity problem.
Takahashi: There seems to be a link between sleep and two hormones. One of them is leptin, a widely studied hormone that controls appetite and is thought to be the secret to obesity. Levels of leptin signal your brain cells that you need more or less food. During sleep, leptin levels normally rise.
Wu: So if you get too few hours of sleep, the levels tend to sink. In that event, the message sent to the brain says you need to eat more. You're caught in a vicious circle. Is that it?
Takahashi: Yes, but that's not the whole picture. Another hormone gets into the act.

L06-03
Takahashi: It's called ghrelin and stimulates your appetite, coming mostly from the stomach. Leptin and ghrelin are supposed to act in tandem to control appetite.
Fine: I've heard they're called hunger's yin and yang. Ghrelin is an eating accelerator and leptin a food-intake brake. But if they go out of balance because you're not getting enough shuteye, you get out of bed feeling famished. You head for the kitchen and wolf down food that's packed with carbohydrates.
Alvarez: I do my best to balance sleep, wholesome food and regular exercise, but I'm still work-driven most of the time. That takes its toll. I feel the strain.
Wu: Don't we all? Anyway, the feedback from many parents says that they would welcome a similar campaign directed at adults who don't get enough sleep and end up fat and unhappy.
Fine: We could emphasize healthy diets, healthy sleep time and regular exercise as our three key points.
Takahashi: The twin objectives of the message should focus on sleep quality as well as quantity. On the quality side, the problems are not getting to sleep speedily, waking up too often during sleep hours, waking up too early and not going back to sleep, and snoring or not breathing normally.
Heinrichs: Part of the campaign could be focused on the woes of frequent business travelers.

L06-04
Heinrichs: One of their main complaints is not getting a good night sleep when they're on the road. Jet lag, noisy hotel rooms or not sleeping easily in strange beds are some of the common stress factors.
Fine: Added to that, you've got to contend with earlier airport checkin times and long security lines. That wears you down and leaves you weary.
Beinrichs: On night, flights I notice wider seats in business class, blindfolds and earplugs on call, and more cabin heat. Seats can be adjusted for tying down flat, extra blankets are available, and piped-in music is turned down for the quiet night hours.
Wu: One good piece of advice from sleep experts, if you're going to cross time zones, is to choose a flight that gets you to your destination early in the evening so you can be in bed by 10 o'clock or so.
Alvarez: I've also heard you shouldn't drink booze on a flight or eat heavy meals onboard or soon after. Book a dark, quiet hotel room and confirm that at the front desk when you arrive. Catch catnaps as much as you can for 15 or 30 minutes at a time between business appointments. I know napping in a taxicab going cross-town can perk me up for quite a while.
Takahashi: OK. Let's sketch out the campaign. I think we've got another winner. We'll go nationwide again for maximum impact. We all need a good night's rest.

L07-01
Sandra Greene: Shuzo, meet Roy Kohn, our man in Shanghai. His official title is VP of Global Manufacturing, so he commutes worldwide to our various production facilities.
Takahashi Shuzo: I'm pleased to meet you, Roy. Sandra described you to me as Brightwell's globe-trotting honcho. I've also heard that globe-trotters are in high demand.
Roy Kohn: That's true, Shuzo, but we're in high demand because there are not so many executives who can fill the bill.
Greene: To qualify for that kind of job, your credentials must include international experience. As Brightwell is still expanding overseas operations, we need high-powered executives like Roy who can implement our international goals.
Takahashi: In other words, you know how to find the most proficient and cost-efficient places to produce Brightwell's product lines.
Kohn: Yes, that's exactly what I do to begin with. Then once a new plant begins to produce, I visit it frequently to monitor its activities and to help remove any glitches.
Takahashi: We're seeing quite a lot of turbulence in the world. I mean wars, terrorist threats and the SARS epidemic, to name just a few. Does that have any impact on international operations?
Kohn: Yes, in certain respects. For instance, everyone's concerned about personal safety, so we've cut down on the number of business conferences and other meetings that we attend.

L07-02
Kohn: Instead, we're talking on the cell phone a lot more now.
Takahashi: I suppose there are ways to trim down business trips, but aren't business relations at risk if people don't meet each other in person?
Kohn: Sure. Face-to-face meetings do matter. That's why Shanghai is an ideal base for me. It's much closer to our production plants in Asia. I visit a half-dozen cities on a single trip, spending one or two days at each location. I may be dining on as many different cuisines as I have lively conferences with all those different business colleagues.
Takahashi: You never feel exhausted by travel at a pace that fast?
Kohn: No. I schedule sleep time on flights. I mix business with pleasure in places like Japan, where I stay for a week. In between business sessions I take time out to visit shrines, temples and landscape gardens-places that are green, scenic and serene.
Greene: Our approaches to travel are as different as night and day. I don't work later than my usual bedtime anywhere, and I shy away from business dinners night after night. I schedule each of them with a free night in between. I'll have a single glass of wine with dinner, but other than that, I swear off alcohol. It can wreak havoc when you're disoriented by different time zones.
Takahashi: I shake off jet lag by exercising indoors or outdoors for about half an hour before breakfast.

L07-03
Takahashi: A swim in a hotel pool is very bracing for me. I'm full of vim and vigor when it's time for my first early-bird appointment.
Kohn: Whether I'm at home or on the road, I turn my cell phone off at bedtime. It's surprising how many people don't take account of time zones. They pick up a phone at 2 p.m. in LA as if it must be 2 p.m. in Shanghai, Cairo or Budapest.
Greene: Nightmare! Believe me, after putting in a typical 14-hour working day I need a good sleep. I can't imagine how you can sleep at all in so many different time zones on one tour. Doesn't it derange your biological clock and drive you crazy?
Kohn: It did for the first two or three years, but now I'm attuned to it. I quickly get in sync wherever I am. Being single is another advantage. I'm not worried about how a family at home copes with my being an absentee hubby and daddy eight months out of a year.
Takahashi: I don't think I could hack that kind of lifestyle even if I didn't have a family. Don'y you feel lonely with no one to come home to?
Kohn: No, I don't. I have close friends among my business associates
wherever I go, so I always feel at home. In Shanghai I'm in the midst of a lively international community. I don't feel deprived. When life is a worldwide adventure, it has numerous rewards for a free spirit. I'm a globe-trotter by personal choice, not by necessity. I like my tinerant lifestyle.

L08-01
Ida Fine: Shuzo, David and I would like to brief you on our Lunch with Punch program. If you recall, it features lessons in correct table manners as one aspect of business success. The campaign is aimed at local college seniors. Please feel free to interject questi as we proceed.
Takahashi Shuzo: I'm all ears. What does the punch mean?
David Wu: We do a hard-hitting presentation on the importance of dining etiquette during the lunch. That's the punch.
Fine: We begin with the table setting. The fork goes on the left. The spoon and knife are placed on the right. Food items go on the left, so your bread plate is on your left. Drinks, including coffee, should be on the right.
Wu: Reach only for items in front of you. Ask that other items be passed by a neighbor. You know, all the basics of dining etiquette.
Takahashi: Uh-huh. My former boss used to include lunches or dinners to evaluate high-level job candidates. It's a good way to look at the whole person and not just their technical or interviewing skills. You can see their upbringing very clearly, so to speak. If you flunk the test, you don't get hired.
Wu: That's another dimension of our presentation. For instance, don't salt and pepper your food before you taste it. That's a boo-boo.

L08-02
Takahashi: Next question. Where do these lunches take place and who attends them?
Fine: They're aimed at local college seniors focused on future business careers. For small groups we book a private room at one of our Bright-well seafood restaurants. For larger groups we do the presentation on campus with catered food.
Wu: Our advance planning also includes likes and dislikes. Some people don't eat meat for religious or other reasons. Others may have seafood allergies. We plan the meal orders accordingly.
Takahashi: OK. Now, let's backtrack. Why do college seniors need this program? Don't they learn good table manners at home, David?
Wu: Formal dining skills just aren't practiced at home in this country anymore. Our typical attendee grew up in a home where both parents work full-time. Most dinners are grab-and-go meals or else frozen food popped into the microwave oven. A table setting consists of a nominal fork, knife and spoon. Other tableware is typically paper or plastic throwaway plates and cups. 
Fine: This may sound simplistic, but the program includes soup-to-nuts lessons. A fresh college grad may get a new interview suit and a typo-free resume, but if you lean forward and hunch over your food, your chances of getting the job are quite slim.

L08-03
Fine: Hold your soup spoon like a pencil and spoon it away from you so it doesn't dribble on the tablecloth.
Wu: It's not unusual to see people in nice restaurants eating like animals. In my parents' restaurant I've seen people spearing food with the tips of chopsticks. Yuk! We demonstrate poor table manners to put the point across emphatically.
Takahashi: What tees me off is people at a table next to mine yakking on cell phones. Does Lunch with Punch delve into that as well?
Wu: Yes, of course. Cell phones should be shut off when dining out. Sad to say, cell phones have become a public nuisance.
Fine: It seems to me that good manners are a thing of the past in many ways. I was standing in' a long line at a department store last weekend to pay for my purchase. A middle-aged woman stomped past everyone and up to the head of the line. The man who was the mext in line objected. She gave him a dirty look and told the cashier to make it snappy. She was in a hurry.
Wu: Rudeness has become a social phenomenon in this country. Common courtesy seems to be a bygone grace.
Takahashi: Rudeness can be contagious. It's like the domino effect. Say I'm outside walking the dog. A jogger runs past me poking my ribs with an elbow and doesn't bother to say sorry. If I get mad, I go snap at my kids. Then my wife gets mad at me.

L08-04
Pine: I don't drive to work anymore, but when I did, I'd sit there drumming my fingers on the steering wheel in traffic jams. I noticed the rising rate of road rage. That has become a nationwide phenomenon in and around big cities. Frustrated drivers blow their tops and get into shouting matches, if not fistfights.
Wu: Inconsiderate behavior isn't limited to crowded roadways. We're seeing it on sidewalks, in offices and in poor customer service in shopping malls, on commuter trains, buses and subways, even in rude outbursts on TV talk shows. What's the world coming to?
Fine: Still, my grandparents grumble about all the bad-mannered people in their generation. It doesn't surprise them that my generation is no different. Rudeness is nothing new. It's an age-old aspect of human nature. I suspect our distant ancestors were crude and rude in their heyday.
Takahashi: Here and now, what can you do about it?
Fine: Offhand, I'd say you can set an example of kindness and consideration in your day-to-day behavior. Other than that, you can be active in community services, like Lunch with Punch, that act as a focal point for good manners. College seniors intent on business careers are a prime target group for instilling good manners across the board.

L09-01
Takahashi Shuzo: Welcome back, Cora. How was your visit to Toronto?
Cora Heinrichs: Harrowing. I was on board and waiting to take off when I actually saw the plane that skidded off the tarmac and rammed into a warehouse. The airport was closed for hours, and I finally got home early this morning.
Paul Alvarez: Oh, that must have been horrible. I was watching the news at home. I'm glad you're here now, safe and sound. All the passengers were evacuated safely, right?
Heinrichs: Yes. The fuel tanks exploded, and the plane burst into flames.I know that flying is getting safer year after year, but it certainly was scary.
Takahashi: We've seen safety changes on airplanes. Floor lighting, for example, is safer than overhead lighting. Passengers can see emergency exit doors easily, even if smoke fills the cabin. Stronger seats stay bolted down, in spite of crash impact.
Heinrichs: Even better innovations are being seen in the crystal ball. Future planes will include fire-blocking insulation that buys more time for passengers to escape from jet-fuel bonfires.
Alvarez: So I guess, partly because of such improvements, surviving a crash isn't necessarily a matter of fate. Passengers should listen to crew briefings or read safety cards in seatbacks carefully. You can take steps to increase the odds of walking away unharmed.

L09-02
Heinrichs: Other than safety innovations, you need to be aware of what you can do to maximize your travel safety. In my case, I count how many rows there are between my seat and the emergency exits up front and behind me. That would come in handy if I'm caught in smoke or darkness on a plane.
Alvarez: Passengers who panic and run can jam exits. We all want to get off, but it's got to be one at a time.
Takahashi: What you eat and drink on board can also make a difference. I never drink alcohol on a long flight. Booze should be rationed no matter how much some passengers object. Drunkards endanger us all in emergencies. If one of them gets out of hand, the air marshal should read him the riot act.
Heinrichs: Safety in the air is one aspect of travel safety. What you eat and drink after you land is another story. Whether you travel for business or pleasure, the risks are the same in any number of foreign countries.
Alvarez: When I travel in developing countries, I drink only bottled water and use it when I brush my teeth and rinse after. Tap water is taboo. I also carry OTC drugs that protect my health.
Takahashi: I know where you're coming from. Somebody once said: In a developing country, don't drink the water; in a developed country, don't breathe the air. [Laughter]
Alvarez: The most common problem is traveler's diarrhea, from a variety of causes.

L09-03
Alvarez: It's not only a health threat as such. It can set off nausea, fever and stomach cramps.
Heinrichs: You're also at high risk for common colds, skin rashes, influenza and respiratory infections. Nowadays, surfing the Web can warn you of health risks at various destinations. Plenty of warnings are posted with constant updates on disease outbreaks and recommended vaccinations. As they say, an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
Takahashi: You need to take some other precautions too. Just about every country has its contingent of pickpockets and con artists. There are good reasons why travelers can be easy prey. To start with, you're clueless about the local con games, scams and petty robbery schemes in other countries. Your level of awareness is lower than local people's.
Heinrichs: Petty thieves like to pick on foreign tourists because they're not on guard. They're easy targets. Their thick billfolds and purses are ripe targets. Again, check helpful Web sites well in advance. Get good answers to sensible questions.
Alvarez: When I get to my destination, I ask more questions at the airport. One of them is where my hotel isAn terms of what I want to do and where I want to do it. What's the taxi fare from the airport to the hotel? How dependable is local security? Is it safe to go out and walk around after nightfall?

L09-04
Takahashi: One tip I keep in mind is that few pickpockets will risk a snatch from your pocket. They're much more apt to snatch a purse or a backpack. And they're not only after cash. A gold credit card with a high limit is prized. An expensiye cell phone or digital camera is enticing.
Heinrichs: Smart travelers carry their backpacks on their chests, not on their backs. Small locks protect zipper tabs. Don't dangle a handbag behind you. Be on red alert riding in crowded trains, buses and subways.
Takahashi: One tactic that worked on me when I was young and foolish was squirting something on me. The culprit offered to wipe it off, trying to ingratiate himself. I dropped my guard. Behind me, his partner moved in for the kill. 
Heinrichs: Women are more popular targets than men because of their handbags. On top of that, if you dress up in gold or diamond jewelry you're a prime target for a handbag snatch. Don't give off signals that you're rich. Thieves can easily size you up. They make a seasoned guess on where you have your wallet.
Alvarez: One glance can do it. On the other hand, if you seem to be no easy mark, they move on to someone else. And golden oldies are as much at risk as young people. Thieves have no respect for the elderly.
Takahashi: Still, if you stay on your toes and travel with some common sense, the world is your playground.

L10-01
Ida Fine: Cora, the company rumor mill is spilling the beans on you and Jerry Miller in customer Relations. Rumor has it you're going steady. Is there any kernel of truth in it?
Cora Heinrichs: Yes, we've been getting together after business hours. I suppose by now it is an open secret.
David Wu: Congratulations. Will we hear wedding bells ringing sometime soon?
Heinrichs: I don't think so. We're not in a hurry to tie the knot. After all, we're both divorced. Neither one of us have children from the first marriage, so that's not a complication. Even so, we're getting to know each other carefully and cautiously. Each date is a baby step.
Takahashi Shuzo: That strikes me as a wise idea. Once burned, twice shy. There's nothing new under the sun when it comes to office romance. It seems to be more common, even more popular, than ever because so many of us spend more time in the office. David, what's your point of view?
Wu: I'm all for it if it's going to have a happy ending. However, there is a fine line to tread between what's deemed romance on the one hand and what's defined as sexual harassment on the other.
Fine: Brightwell has an enlightened policy on office romance It's sanctioned in general, but there is one exception. If both partners are employed in the same office, one of them will have to accept a transfer to another department.

L10-02
Heinrichs: Way back when, a lot of companies tried to ban office romance. That would go over like a lead balloon nowadays. The bans led to lawsuits which introduced legal restraints on company policy. You can't fire someone for falling in love with someone in the next cubicle.
Fine: How true. In principle, Brightwell doesn't pour cold water on office romance, but there are some restrictions in practice. One example is an affair between a manager and a subordinate employee. That's off-limits because it could be harmful to business.
Heinrichs: In a few cases I've noticed at Brightwell, we've had two lovebirds falling out of love and breaking up. A broken heart is no laughing matter. The emotional stress can be devastating. That's one reason why this company has an Employee Assistance Program in the employee benefits lineup. A lovebird with a broken wing needs counseling.
Wu: There's something to be said for a shoulder to cry on. After that, you need to get back down to business as usual. That may include a decision to resign and get a new job elsewhere. In that event, you should be ready to contend with another corporate culture.
Heinrichs: That's what happened to me when my marriage went out the window. I lucked out by landing a new job at Brightwell. Ida, David and Paul went out of their way to get me settled in happily.

L10-03
Takahashi: Since I had a similarly helpful welcome, I share that sentiment. From what I know so far about Customer Relations, sharpshooters like Jerry Miller spend a good deal of time on the road. How do the two of you deal with that?
Heinrichs: In much the same way as other people in their 20s or 30s who are dating. We keep in touch through e-mail and instant messaging, even if it's nothing more than "How's it going today?"
Wu: E-mail and cell phones have created a social revolution in the way people communicate. Cheap technology keeps romance blooming even from far away. Long-distance dating is one way to keep work lives and love lives in balance.
Fine: On top of e-mail and cell phones there are Web cameras and digital pictures to chuck back and forth. I can see my husband with his surfboard on a beach at Atlantic City on the East Coast. He can see me having a cocktail with Paul, David and Cora here on a cafe patio in LA.
Takahashi: In other words, it's a shift in lifestyle. The two of you may be far apart, but you keep in touch just about every day.
Heinrichs: For many people like Jerry and me, it can be four or five times a day. It's like dating anytime, anywhere, whether it's from a few hundred or a few thousand miles away.
Wu: Even after 20 years of wedlock, Mr. and Mrs. Wu boot long-distance notes to each other over the Net.

L10-04
Fine: Love notes, David? That's so sweet. Oh, please don't blush! You look like a ripe tomato. [Chuckles]
Takahashi: I doubt that I could adjust to long-distance romance. My wife and I keep in touch by cell phone when I'm out of town, but we don't whisper sweet nothings to each other. Usually the chitchat is about somethin or other going on in the household. One of the kids didn't make the cut for the school baseball team or wants to wear earrings in grade school.
Heinrichs: My beau and I cross-referenced flight schedules and surfed the Net for dirt-cheap airfares so we could spend weekends together side by side.
Wu: How does that work in actual practice? Who picks up the tab?
Heinrichs: We split the costs. Let's say I paid for the weekend's airfare. He'd pick up the bill for meals, rock concert tickets and bus fares. As much as we count on cell phones or whatever, it's not the same as sitting on a park bench holding hands and billing and cooing cheek to cheek.
Takahashi: I see what you mean. Cora, I can only hope your office romance has a happy ending.
Heinrichs: Thank you for that. Jerry and I have a long row to hoe before we stand at the altar for the final I do's. We both hope that's what happens, but only time will tell.

L11-01
Sandra Greene: I've studied your proposal for a campaign designed aroand a weight loss competition. In principle, it's very interesting. What gave rise to the idea?
Takahashi Shaso: Over the past six months I've shed seven kilos. One of my friends in Tokyo told me how fo lose weight in a simple and effective way. The key point was to check my weight twice a day, morning and evening. At the same time, think back and analyze why my weight changed.
lda Fine: Shuzo challenged me to try it out. I did. I weighed myself twice a day. Posted my daily weights on a chart. Then I exercised for half an hour. Like him I picked up a pedometer to measure my mileage.
Greene: If you've been a couch potato for years, what's the best way to get cracking on a daily exercise program? How can parents motivate an overweight child to get back in shape?
Paul Alvares: I think the answer is that one word -- pedometer. You count your steps from the beginning to the end of a day. You set your own targets working up to 10,000 steps per day as your goal.
Takahashi: Another kiey is portion control. Eat from small plates to cut the portios down. Stack half of the plate with bright fruit and veggies. I'm fond of grapes and eherry tomatoes.
Fine: I read that book you recommended, Shuzzo, by the food psychologist. He knows what we do when we eat. He knows quite well why we gain weigt.

L11-02
Fine: It's because people are attracted to food that comes in bigger sizes.
Greene: In other words, it's your mindset, rather than real hunger, that whets your taste buds. Hand us a big bowl and that's how much ice cream we'll gobble up. You eat a lot more yogurt when it comes in a dozen different flavors. The more you see in front of you, the more you stuff down.
Fine: That's one reason Brightwell stands out as different. We don't sell size. We sell quality. We were one of the first food companies to list ingredients and calorie counts. That's why we can be credible if we sponsor a weight-loss campaign.
Takahashi: I'm excited our next wave of product lines will highlight nutrition, including fat and carbohydrate counts, and associated health advice on those products. Thoughtful consumers will appreciate our candor, as well as our concern for their health.
Fine: Parents will like the messages from cartoon characters on new products for kids that spell out what vitamins and minerals can do to build up strong bones and bodies.
Greene: I'm also impressed that this weight-loss competition has built-in flexibility. You know, different strokes for different folks. You can personalize your own program. There's plenty of self-help advice on the Websites you've listed, including special menus recommended by weight-loss mavens.

L11-03
Greene: Setting the men aside for the moment, what are some of the key points for women?
Fine: Nutrition for women is featured on one of the Websites. It's focused on critical times in women's lives from the first menstrual cycle and onward into pregnancy and menopause. Those are the times when women are most prone to gain weight. In menopause, for instance, weight gains range from 5 to 50 pounds. Much of that fat swells the stomach resulting in what has been called a "menopot" belly.
Alvarez: Middle-aged men who get sedentary are prone to the same phenomenon. Bellies swell into potbellies that can't fit into streamlined belt sizes. If a guy doesn't choose to slim down, he's got to fork out the cost of bigger belts as life goes on.
Greene: Point taken, but let's keep the focus on women. The 40s seem to be the most critical decade for women. Muscles soften from disuse and calories aren't burnt off as easily. Pounds go up in double digits.
Estrogen loss may be one reason for weight gain due to a craving for food that's loaded with fat and carbohydrates. Many of us are too tired to trim down because the change of life causes night sweats and insomnia.
Takahashi: I suppose that's nerve-wracking, but rigorous exercise isn't necessary. Just enough cardiovascular exercise to burn off 400 calories a day is enough. Strength training to regain and maintain muscle mass is what matters most.

L11-04
Fine: That's especially true for women in their 50s, although it's also true for men. You don't have to go to a gym. You can use rubber tubes, hand weights or yoga exercises in your own home.
AIvarez: My mother shot up to 220 pounds in her late 40s. I still beg her to lose weight, but she hasn't. Maybe this competition will do the trick. I'm all for having it in Spanish for the Hispanic community.
Greene: In either language, I don't want the message focused on weight loss, You don't lose it. You remove it. If you lose your car keys, that's a real loss. You want to find them. Weight is different. It's like putting out the rubbish. You don't want it to come back to haunt you. How do we set up the hotline and get the word out?
Takahashi: We'll design a publicity strategy including media presentations and local promotions. We'll need press packets, media previews of the campaign, one-on-one press interview schedules, and hotline setups beginning in New York, Chicago and here in LA.
Alvarez: We'll set up a special Brightwell hotline for people with weight problems. It'll include great advice on how to remove weight. And the competition will bring forth weight-loss winners.
Takahashi: It's bound to be newsworthy because Brightwell is a food company. We can count on good publicity in the mass media. Let's go for it!

L12-01
Sandra Greene: Give me an update on the Asia Pacific public relations conference in Shanghai. How's it going?
Takahashi Shuzo: David Wu and Cora Heinrichs are on-site this week at the conference venue. David is liaising in, Chinese with the local support staff and Cora is working on logistics.
Greene: Good. What about themes for the meetings?
Takahashi: Among others, we're looking at sessions on enhancing external relations. And we definitely want a roundtable session centered on crisis communications.
Ida Fine: To kick that off, we're going to present our own case study, namely, that bogus claim that a customer at one of the chain restaurants made. She said she found earthworms in her hamburger.
Greene: Right. I remember that one. Those liars never seem to learn. Numerous attempts have been made at such a hoax, No one has ever walked away without handcuffs.
Takahashi: We'll point out the danger of not dealing squarely with claims of that nature. While you can't assume all faultfinders are crooks, you're faced with a horrendous task of damage control afterwards if you haven't taken immediate counteraction.
Fine: We did the right thing, but the damage was already done. Even though it was all contrived, the image of seeing earthworms in food was so overwhelming that customer traffic was down for a while.

L12-02
Greene: Yes. I remember the Free Fish and Fries Friday giveaway campaign ran for a whole month. We were lucky that was successful and put us back on our feet. Make it a point in the presentation to emphasize all such countermeasures. Our associates will want to know how we fought back.
Takahashi: For the main event, we go for open debate and discussion so everyone attending the seminar has a chance to speak out on how to control damage. We've drawn up a draft of the meeting objectives. It includes a call for other case studies and brainstorming for counter- action tactics.
Greene: Make sure the meeting agenda reads like a roadmap. It should take you from alpha to omega in terms of acquiring new concepts and knowledge. Construct guidelines for all the session speakers, and facilitators likewise. You want people leaving each session with a satisfied smile, not a befuddled frown. Remember that the endpoint is not time wasted but genuine takeaway value.
Takahashi: That's what we have in mind. It's not only having the right subject matter. We want to invite the right people as well. That's one way to maximize active participation.
Greene: Exactly when are you scheduling this event?
Takahashi: Our tentative thinking is late autumn this year or spring next year. We see it as a Thursday evening welcome party, then full-day sessions on Friday and Saturday, concluding with a Sunday brunch meeting followed by some sightseeing activities.

L12-03
Fine: Crisis management is only one of the conference themes. Three years ago we ran a campaign to market a new line of enriched milk with fruit flavors for schoolchildren. Now our Asian market is taking aim at similar Brightwell milks for kids and adults alike. So are our regional competitors.
Takahashi: The new lines are focused on familiar fruits like mango and papaya. Green tea may be a candidate for China and Japan.
Greene: I see. How does this trend relate to our convention? I assume there's a tie-in.
Fine: Yes. What we have in mind is a seminar on promoting milk in Asia as a case study on marketing communications. What can we share about how market recognition and successful sales campaigns can help? 
Greene: It all sounds good to me, but give me some more background I can take upstairs. For instance, why don't Asians drink milk as a general rule? Why is fruit-flavored milk likely to succeed? What's the size of the market and what's the potential sales revenue?
Fine: To answer the first question, plain old Western-world milk is not popular in Asia outside Japan. Innovative milk flavors are the ticket to success. For instance, milk flavored with ginger, honey, wheatgrass or pandanus leaf can be a big winner.
Takahashi: Asians know they need more calcium in their diets for bone building and maintenance, so milk can hit the spot. The potential market is huge.

L12-04
Fine: The total dairy market at present stands at $35 billion and is still surging upward by four percent a year. Compared to that, marke growth in the U.S. is only about half.
Takahashi: Milk, yogurt and associated food and drink have enormous growth potential, especially in Southeast Asia, where milk has never been popular because it's too expensive. Powdered milk with local flavors could change all that. The takeaway value for marketing mavens is how to design successful campaigns for new products that have tremendous sales potential.
Greene: I get the point. Have you got anything else on your conference agenda?
Fine: We're considering an early morning session that's themed on getting exercise when you've gotten away from home. We'll have local fitness instructors on hand to demonstrate tai chi and some other rise-and-shine personal workouts. They're doable in your hotel room, outdoors, or at a nearby exercise facility.
Takahashi: It's going to be an active workshop which all attendees can participate in together. None of the routines require special equipment for a 20-minute workout. We'll mention alternatives like swimming pools and well-equipped fitness centers'in or near downtown hotels but emphasize that good workouts can be cost-free and done in privacy.
Greene: Fine and dandy. Proceed and keep me posted as usual on the whole ball of wax.

L13-01
Takahashi Shuzo: Ida, this proposal for a reading campaign is a fine idea. What was the spark that set you thinking?
Ida Fine: I dined out with my husband last week. When we read the menu, we noticed it was full of misspellings and wrong punctuation. It lit a light bulb.
Paul Alvarez: Kids who can't read well are missing a chance to do well. Reading and writing skills benefit all kids for personal and social advancement. How about a campaign message that's light-hearted and uplifting?
Cora Heinrichs: I'll second that. To some extent, we need to plug reading books, newspapers and magazines. On the other hand, we have to face the fact that not much more than half of adult Americans read even one book in a year. The rest don't read books, not because they can't read but because they don't want to.
Alvarez: They'd claim you don't need books when you've got TV, movies and the Internet. There's been a big shift from print media to electronic media. Publishers are tearing their hair out to come up with ways to encourage more people to read their products.
Heinrichs: Print media publishers need to brainstorm with electronic media magnates to promote print media readership to mutual benefit.
Takahashi: If and when that happens, let's celebrate. In the meantime, circulation figures for nearly all U.S. newspapers continue to spiral down.

L13-02
Fine: That's the downside. Paid circulation is in a general decline, but loyal subscribers are sticking with their favorite newspapers for longer renewal periods.
Alvarez: Even so, the future looks bleak for print media. Going online with a Web site is one option, but the competition is stiff. You've got Internet blogs, Web pages focused on no more than one subject, and popular portals that present news from all sorts of sources.
Heinrichs: That's true. Maybe the old-fashioned newspaper, as we know it, will slip into oblivion. Nevertheless, online media provide new opportunities for the newspaper industry, including rises in online advertising income in the future.
Takahashi: Media consultants seem to agree that newsprint may be on the way out, but online publication has a rosy future.
Fine: Another general trend that's defeating traditional newspapers is the younger generation's evident preference for youth-triendly news. Newspapers never did, and still den't, cater to people looking for age-related news. College kids, for example, may read a tree cammpus daily that's oriented to their own interests, However you won't see any of them forking out money for an ordinary newspaper They go ouline to visit friendly Web sites for exactly what they want to monitor day hy day.
Alvarez: The major Internet service providers include daily news and features in brief and in-depth.

L13-03
Alvarez: You're free to pick and choose news that suits your personal interests. I, for one, like to keep a keen eye on sports news.
Heinrichs: I mainly check out fashion news or reviews of what's new on Broadway. Even from that narrow viewpoint I have dozens of news sources I can tune into to stay up-to-date. More often than not, I don't go to general newspaper Web sites for that kind of news. I can visit convenient Web sites devoted solely to my kind. of news.
Takahashi: From what I've noticed, orthodox newspapers' Web sites are all much the same. The Internet is very competitive. U.S. newspapers should be focused on becoming the major information and commerce sources for their particular regions.
Fine: With a more localized focus, they could reap a bumper harvest of regional advertising. Local readers want to know mo?t what's going on in their own chunk of this country. If they live in the Midwest, what's happening in Portland, Oregon, or Palm Beach is way far away from their immediate interest.
Heinrichs: That's true for me too, but I don't think it's true for Shuzo. I'll bet he keeps his eagle eye on what's grabbing headlines over there in Japan.
Takahashi: You bet. I keep an eye on what's happening back home.
Fine: That's as it should be. Now that we've taken an overview of what's happening in the news industry, how can that affect the way that we wage our Read Well campaign?

L13-04
Fine: I note in passing that paperback book publishers are debating producing paperbacks in bigger sizes with bigger print for easier reading.
Alvarez: I think that bigger is better is a welcome trend to attract more teenage and adult readers, but they're not our target audience for this Read Well campaign. We're aiming mainly at school kids from 6 to 12 years of age. I don't think we should push book reading too much. What we should go for is a combination of reading plus listening comprehension.
Heinrichs: I get it. Score one for Paul. Let me put it this way. One way first graders learn to read is to start out with picture books that illustrate simple text for beginners. They listen to the teacher read the words and then repeat the words together out loud. We don't want to interfere with that curriculum. We want to enhance it outside the classroom. Any concrete suggestions?
Takahashi: I've got one. In cooperation with teachers, why don't we tie up with one or more book publishers and portable digital device manufacturers to produce illustrated kid's books in large printthat go hand in hand with the same stories recorded for listening too?
Fine: I like it. As the kids read the text, they listen to the audio to learn to enunciate each word properly. At the end of each lesson we can append questions for them to answer. That gives them a chance to actively interact with what they've just read and heard. That should do the trick.

L14-01
Takahashi Shuzo: David, aside from setting up the Asia-Pacifie conference in Shanghai, what jmpression?s did you get of the China market in general?
David Wa: One of the most surprising findings is rising consumer awareness of health and nutrition. Personal incomes and living standards  are surging upward right in line with the booming Chinese economy.
Cora Heinrichs: Of particular interest to Brightwell is the new market for milk. We're among a number of companies that are adapting milk products to local taste and pitching our products as calcium supplements for healthy bones.
Ida Fine: How is Brightwell doing? I know we've supplied free milk to hospitals in major Chinese cities for clinical trials, I was told we needed clinical evidence to prove that our mineral-enriched milk does promote bone building. How did that turn out?
Wu: Quite well. Asian diets by and large don't contain much calcium. That's why osteoporosis has been a major problem. All in all, those new dairy products are catching on. I even saw bone scanners in some supermarkets that show shoppers ther bones aren't up to par, acconding to current global health standards.
Heinrichs: China is also experiencing a rise in heart problems and the other diseases of wealthy societies. Heavy pollution, private car ownership and smoking are taking a toll on health.

L14-02
Wu: In addition, rates of obesity, high cholesterol and high blood pressure have soared in China.
Takahashi: So I guess Brightwell's message about health and nutrition through food is playing a fine tune there. And it seems we have a strong management team in Shanghai that's known to be able to create hit products in record time.
Heinrichs: Yes. Roy Kohn, our man on the spot, says he enjoys the autonomy  and trust he's been given from headquarters. Whenever he sees a way to modify or create a new product that may catch on, he says he doesn't have to go through layers of management or wait months to get a decision.
Wu: That's true. Roy does that very well, in concert with the local R&D team. But he told me he has another kind of problem that sometimes stands in the way of smooth management. One of his major headaches is how to find high-level Chinese management executives. And after he's hired them, he wonders how to grow, motivate and keep them.
Fine: Really? China is the world's most populous country. It's also the globe's fastest-growing economy. Business is booming. Why should there be a lack of candidates for managers?
Heinrichs: In brief, China has too many factories and not enough highly qualified managers. Roy said he spent six months doing interviews with candidates for the position of vice president of operations.

L14-03
Heinrichs: Ironically, the guy he had finally got to come on board resigned three months later to go to work elsewhere - for better pay in the IT business.
Wu: China has 25,000 tate-owned enterprises, 4.3 million private firms and massive industrial capacity. It's a cinch to recruit people for the lower talent slots, but not someone who's top-notch.
Heinrichs: From what I gather, high-speed domestic market changes and dealing with foreign markets are tremendous challenges for Chinese entrepreneurs. Most of the foreign companies bedded down in the Chinese market also lean heavily on local talent to wend their way.
Wu: Chinese enterprises eager to capture new markets in Asia will run head-on into tough competition from India. CEOs in India are much more experienced in dealing with different ethnic markets. That doesn't mean that Chinese traders stand no chance of withstanding Indian rivalry. The key to success is a better system of business education.
Takahashi: Is anything happening to counteract that comparative lack of business education? And what about the language barrier, English in particular?
Fine: Yes. On this end, there was a report in a local daily yesterday that Chinese has become the new "a" language among students and business executives who are trying to gain increasingly useful career and lite skills.

L14-04
Fine: The number of students learning Chinese has skyrocketed to an astonishing degree. Are the Chinese studying English as fervently?
Wu: No doubt about it. The fact that such a challenging language has become all the rage in this country speaks to the global influence of China's economy. Tremendous efforts are under way in China to put promising college grads into MBA schools in Europe and the United States. Those who aren't already bilingual get enrolled in foreign-language crash courses before they begin their business studies.
Heinrichs: Once they've crossed the language barrier, one of the next subjects in international business acumen must be a full recognition that business customs and ethics as practiced in China are not universal. How to succeed in foreign markets is a very different cup of tea, which boils down to "when in Rome, do as the Romans do."
Wu: It's heartening for me to see how closely government ministries and private industry are pulling together in)common cause to cultivate a new generation of future business leaders. International business schools are springing up in principal cities.
Heinrichs: Yes, I've read that old-fashioned state-planning seminars have slipped into history. The hottest topic now is how to succeed in business as an independent venture capitalist.

L15-01
Takahashi Shuzo: Good morning, Cora. Is Sandra in this morning? I want to talk to her about my visit to New York last week.
Cora Heinrichs: She's been tied up in a meeting all morning. Our board members are mulling over an edict issued by one of our rivals. An employee who smokes anywhere, even on free time or at home, will be fired. Job applicants who admit they smoke won't be hired.
Paul Alvarez: To me, it sounds like an Inquisition. Workers who smoke don't get literally burned at the stake these days, but they do lose their livelihood. People out of work lose their sense of humor, and that's no joke. Are we backsliding into another Prohibition Era like the Roaring '20s when alcoholic drinks were banned?
Ida Fine: At the very least, it raises pregnant questions. Can companies demand that all employees conform to such regulations under threat of dismissal? This particular company insists it's one way to cut down on healthcare costs. Critics on the opposing side claim that workers' right to privacy is under fire.
Alvarez: Some companies are resorting to random tests to detect evidence of smoking. Briefeases, handbags or other personal belongings may be searched. Smokers who did quit the habit before the crackdown began have not been fired, but they aren't covered by company health insurance. Job applicants undergo a mandatory urine test to confirm there is no evidence of nicotine.

L15-02
Heinrichs: The debate has gone from where you can smoke to whether you can smoke at all.
Fine: Well, you have to consider the fact that tobacco smoking accounts for more than 440,000 deaths in the United States each year at a cost of more than $75 billion in direct medical costs. In the end, our courts of law will have to contend with the costs and benefits of both sides in the fight. In other words, who's violating whose rights?
Takahashi: I suspect that some court cases may involve smoke-free hotel chains. Their smoking guests may object. One chain claimed that over 90 percent of their guests ask for no-smoking rooms, so they went ahead and banned smoking in all rooms, bars, restaurants and lounges. Smokers may puff away, but only on outdoor balconies or at other designated outdoor smoking spots.
Alvarez: Think of what that must feel like in sizzling summer heat or winter blizzards. At any rate, it's a hotel trend that's sweeping across this country. Similar trends are even spurting up in pubs in England and Ireland and other public places. Medical reports are fanning the flames by substantiating claims that breathing secondhand smoke runs a high risk of lung cancer and heart disease.
Heinrichs: Unfortunately, medical problems don't faze cigarette smokers. Half of the heavy smokers keep on lighting up even after they diagnosed with cancer. Some of them never quit. Others light up after long bouts of cancer therapy.

L15-03
Alvarez: As a dedicated ex-smoker, I know how tough it is to let go of nicotine. For months after I took the no-smoking oath, nicotine haunted me in my dreams. It's not too late to stop for most people, but if you never stop, cancer therapies, over time, lose their effectiveness, and risks keep on rising for heart trouble, lung tumors and sundry other infections.
Heinrichs: Many smokers rely on nicotine to ease day-to-day stress. But if a doctor diagnoses cancer, the stress levels increase by leaps and bounds. Friends who have let go of smoking tell me that what counts most is a sensible game plan, Combine that with medications prescribed by doctors that can double the chance of success.
Alvarez: I agree. I had my doctor's cooperation when I decided to overcome smoking. His advice and guidance made a big difference. Smokers shouldn't hesitate to ask for professional help.
Fine: When my mother decided to let go of smoking a dozen or so years ago, she also decided to lose the booze. It's not that she was an alcoholic, but she liked to go to wine bars or beer gardens with neighborhood ladies. Liquor and cigarettes are bosom buddies. The more you drink, the more you crave a smoke, and vice versa. Our family doctor eased the pain of letting go. She's as healthy as a racehorse nowadays.
Takahashi: My oldest brother admits that he misses the "good old days of knocking back mugs of beer in smoky pubs, but fond memories haven't tempted him to backslide.

L15-04
Takahashi: He's as fit as a fiddle in his mid-40s and determined to stay in great shape. He still carries his favorite briar pipe in his suit jacket as a sentimental souvenir but never lights up.
Heinrichs: Have you heard? Nowadays, getting caught with an ashtray is no laughing matter in New York City. You can legally carry a loaded gun if it's licensed, but if you're caught with a portable ashtray when you're out walking, you can be cited and fined for a civic offense. And there's  no license!
Alvarez: When I visited New York a couple of months ago, a friend who lives in Manhattan filled me in on ashtray crime. An ashtray on display at any place where smoking is banned is an invitation to a civic summons. It doesn't make a whit of difference if the ashtray is used to hold paper clips or chocolate chips. An ashtray in open view is breaking the antismoking law.
Takahashi: How will all this end up? Some official can march into your bar, store or office with no prior warning and disrupt your business anytime they like? Why isn't there a wave of protest?
Fine: There's little more than ripples so far, but if the harassment doesn't slack off, I expect to see a tidal waye of legal protests sometime soon. New Yorkers are a tough bunch. They don't shut up and bend to the wind, as a general rule. That's especially true when they sniff the wind and conclude that their individual rights are under the gun. That's when they see red and go to war in courts of law.

L16-01
Cora Heinrichs: What was the memorial service for Sandra Greene's father like?
Takahashi Shuzo: It was held at his home. The den was his favorite room, so they had an open coffin there on a trestle, so friends and relatives could see him in a place he loved for the final farewell. After visiting hours, there was a modest buffet with food and drink for a wake in his honor. A few people paid their last respects with brietf speeches. Some of them were quite funny.
Ida Fine: From what I heard, he was quite the man-about-town, wise and witty
Heinrichs: Did he wish to be buried in a cemetery with an appropriate tombstone like most people?
Takahashi: No. His last written wish was to be cremated, and then have his ashes scattered in the ocean off Catalina Island. However, he also insisted on a small headstone in a seaside graveyard where Sandra and the rest of the family can visit and lay down floral bouquets.
Heinrichs: It sounds like a sensible way to bow out. Cremation after a simple home funeral, for instance, costs much less at $5,000, including the casket, than a full-blown funeral with church service and formal burial at $7,000 and on up. Out of curiosity, David, what's the cost for a traditional Chinatown funeral here in LA?
David Wu: I don't know exactly, but costs vary according to the social rank of the deceased.

L16-02
Wu: Chinese families don't want to lose face by skimping on funeral ceremonies, so they tend to spend quite lavishly to uphold the family's social status.
Fine: I understand that in most Asian cultures, the wearing of white is symbolic of death.
Wu: That's right, but dark- or black-colored attire is now often also acceptable for mourners to wear, particularly those outside the family.
Takahashi: In Japan, most funerals take place with Buddhist rituals in temples rather than in Shinto shrines. The deceased person is given a posthumous name for his or her afterlite. Ater cremation, small pieces of bone are placed in an urn and laid to rest in a family grave marked by a memorial headstone. Many generations may rest in peace together.
Fine: I've heard that gifts of cash in ceremmonial envelopes are donated to families of the deceased by those attending funerals in Japan. Is that right?
Wu: That's not only Japan. It's a common custom as well in China and Southeast Asia. Shuzo, how do the funeral costs add up in in Japan?
Takahashi: The average cost for the typical set of ceremonices would be in the range of $20,000 to $25,000.
Heinrichs: Wow! That's like four to five times as high as the US average.

L16-03
Heinrichs: It must be quite a burden for the average family to finance.
Takahashi: Yes, but there is a wind of change. A new wave of upstairt mortuaries is paring down costs paid to wake-caterers, florists and Buddhist monks. Many families are no longer inclined to sacrifice much of their inheritance to elaborate ceremonies.
Fine: Exactly how do they cut costs without losing face?
Takahashi: Well, one way is to hold memorial services in plush hotels. You see, many hotels that have lost wedding banquet revenue because young Japanese people are getting married much later in age have bounced back with funeral banquets. And new funeral parlor chain operators are marketing more reasonable customized-service packages.
Heinrichs: Back in the 1950s, funeral customs were by and large cut-and-dried. You had the funeral service with open or closed casket at church of your choice, followed by the burial service at your family plot, with flowers scattered as the coffin was lowered into its final resting place. The consensus was all in favor of natural death or death with dignity.
Fine: Yeah. You said your farewells, regretted your sins, requested forgiveness, and then settled back for the dying of the light.
Heinrichs: There'll be even more sweeping changes as the aging boomers decide how they want to get set for the Big Goodbye.

L16-04
Fine: I've heard of people concerned about the environment who choose to be buried in a coffin made of cardboard or other easily biodegradable materials. They may make their final resting place in a woodland and have a tree planted over their grave as a contribution to the environment.
Wu: I expect a trend toward funerals that have a more individualized stamp of approval. I hear some people are creating documentaries about their lives to be shown at their services and others bring in the marching band of their alma mater to play the funeral music.
Takahashi: On the high-tech side, funeral parlors in the near future are going to offer giant video screens. We're also seeing personal decisions other than body burial, ranging from cremated remains shot into outer space in rockets, to carbonized remains converted to gemstones, and bones donated as building blocks for artificial ocean reefs.
Fine: Did you hear about that writer who died a few months ago specifying that after cremation he wanted his remains shot from a cannon as the climax to a fireworks display? It was done. What will they think of next?
Wu: Our great-grandparents would never have been able to imagine what life in the 21st century is like. But even more, they would never have been able to imagine what death was going to be like.

L17-01
Takahashi Shuzo: How's the summer intern selection going? Has it been narrowed down to a few finalists?
Ida Fine: Yes, two to be exact, Gene Meaney and Jean Teasdale. 
Cora Heinrichs: One guy, one gal, though. Shuzo, we did have to cull a couple of Gen Y types. You know, T-shirts, ripped jeans and bare feet in scuffed sandals. The rest of the candidates were dressed more tastefully. They must have figured ahead of time that we favor a middle-of-the-road dress code.
Paul Alvarez: Besides that, we made it clear on the application form that our solicitation for interns was limited to college sophomores. We want interns at an equal scholastic grade so our program will be equally challenging to all.
Heinrichs: By the cut-off date we had ten applicants hand-picked for interviews. We set up face-to-face interviews for each of them here at headquarters.
Fine: I like it that way because doing it here on-site gives them a feel for our office atmosphere, our corporate culture and other vibes they pick up at our sponsored lunch and short guided tour. We didn't cram them all into one morning or afternoon either. Each interview ran about a half hour, and we spread them over a normal workweek. That way we didn't pinch time from our usual workloads.
Takahashi: So now it's time to make the final decision, right? Meaney or Teasdale? Or both?
Heinrichs: Let's vote. Who's in favor of hiring both?

L17-02
Heinrichs: OK, that's three out of three, unanimous. Next on the agenda is mentors. I'm willing to mentor Meaney. Paul, can we count on you to look after Teasdale?
Alvarez: Sure, Id like to take a crack at it. Will we proceed on the standard schedule? You know, the informal welcome lunch in the conference room, with Shuzo making short welcome-to-Brightwell remarks, followed by Cora and I detailing who we are and what we do, including specific projects, past and present.
Fine: Why not? From then on, we can schedule weekly early-bird breakfast meetings to integrate Gene and Jean into the team. We can discuss their assignments and press for their contributions to brainstorming. Remind them to evaluate their assignments with weekly reports.
Alvarez: In the final week, we can have each of them present a mentored project proposal to Shuzo and Sandra. Shuzo, any comments on what we've outlined so far?
Takahashi: On the whole, the training program seems worthwhile. In the first half, we get them centered on what we do and how we go about it. In the second half, we get them focused on actual ongoing projects and solicit their original ideas on promotional angles that could be built in to give the campaigns even more powerful clout.
Heinrichs: I'm for that. Let's see what they come up with. We might be surprised.
Alvarez: Provided we don't set our sights too high.

L17-03
Alvarez: We can't expect professional expertise. On the other hand, they may bowl us over. An outsider's input can be thought-provoking, loaded with unique insights beaming in from elsewhere in the Milky Way.
Heinrichs: If we give them hands-on, how-to advice and guidance, we can anticipate energetic feedback. As they learn from us, they'll perceive us as powerful role models and want to win our respect. We should expect them to make mistakes from time to time, though.
Fine: Throughout the entire July-August program, Shuzo, we'll be delighted whenever you can spare time to take a backseat and listen in. We'll be equally pleased if Sandra can pop in now and then to sit back and listen. We'll give both of you a copy of the daily schedule so you can pick out sessions that pique your interest.
Takahashi: Sure. I'll also be chairing several of our regular confabs with the interns attending as silent observers. Other than that, I'll scan the schedule and mark other sessions of particular interest. Sandra will be on hand to greet the interns in her office on kickoff day. Again, she'll be on hand for the program's closing day. Along the way, I can send her a memo whenever I think there's a session that's worth her while for 15 or 20 minutes in a busy day.
Fine: For both of you, the welcome mat is always out. The same goes for the interns once the summer program is over. Don't be surprised if a year or two later, Gene or Jean gets in touch with us as a job applicant. That's how Paul joined us.

L17-04
Alvarez: Yeah. I interned here in my junior year. I figured it wouldn't be much of a challenge, just hanging around as Johnny-on-the-spot for a few routine chores. Oh boy, was I wrong. From Day One the heat was on me as a virtual team member.
Heinrichs: Our interns learn a lot, but more often than not, it's a shock.
What they expect is a chance to mostly hang around and keep their eyes and ears open for a couple of months as we go through our daily grind. Instead of that, we dump them into the pressure cooker.
Takahashi: I see. It's not quite total immersion training but close enough to rattle a few cages. Have any interns thrown in the towel and blown out after a week or two?
Fine: Yes, we've lost a few early on, because they looked forward to simple no-brainer chores that busy full-timers are happy to palm off on temp workers during the short-staffed summer vacation season. What we give them is a foretaste of the PR business in the sweatshop of the real world. The events that divide those who bow out from those who don't function like a litmus test of personal courage and the urge to succeed.
Alvarez: I don't mind confessing that I was shell shocked for the first few days. I wished that I could disappear at will like the Invisible Man. The Cora took me aside and told me to chill out.
Heinrichs: I reminded Paul he wasn't under fire. This isn't a war zone with people shooting real bullets at you. It's like basic training. Relax and go with the flow. A year or so later Paul was a new recruit.

L18-01
Sandra Greene: Come in, Shuzo. I've been wanting to talk to you confidentially, about something personal.
Takahashi Shuzo: Well, I hope I've been behaving myself fairly well. Please tell me what's on your mind.
Greene: Oh, it's not you! I wanted you to know something before the formal anouncement is made. I'm going to level with you. I've filed for an extended leave of absence because management wants me to stay on in some capacity. I'Il stay on for a month to wrap things up, but it's highly unlikely I'll return.
Takahashi: I'm just dumbfounded. What are your future plans, if I may ask? Are you thinking of retiring?
Greene: Don't worry. I won't be retiring from life. Let's say that I'm disenchanted with the corporate rat race of money, money, money. I don't want to devote my whole career to a bottom line of dollars and cents, or stock dividends in the boardroom. I'm going to return to my alma mater to give students a helping hand in coping with real life. It's not a teaching position. My appointment will be chief career counselor at the university. 
Takahashi: I see. You'll counsel the graduates about their career paths. How will you go about that?
Greene: It's called a collegiate work-life integration program. For quite some time, alumni too have clamored for career path counseling as payback for the donations they're asked to contribute year after year.

L18-02
Greene: I'll work with them, as well.
Takahashi: Does the counseling program have an age limit or is it operative from first job search to retirement time?
Greene: It's a lifetime program. Old-fashioned loyalty to alma maters is fading away. The new trend is quid pro quo. What's in it for me if I cough up cash when asked? Shouldn't I be recompensed with something worthwhile?
Takahashi: I believe career counseling is a real need in the real world these days. Many new grads will go through several career paths and job changes over the years. A key concern is how to market yourself successfully. Others feel a need for advice and guidance on how to balance careers with families.
Greene: That's right. Counselors need to sort out conflicts and devise recommendations that harmonize business, family and community goals in a work-life integration that doesn't conflict with overall career goals.
Takahashi: I imagine that there are options like flextime with varied work hours. I hear that here at Brightwell we have full-time employees who opt for temporary part-time hours or some degree of telecommuting.
Greene: Yes, and counseling should be a step-by-step process of redefining how work life can be redesigned to satisfy employers as well as families. Some experimentation is usually involved to make adjustments to mutual satisfaction.

L18-03
Takahashi: In essence, it sounds simple and straightforward, but there must be unexpected potholes or rock falls along the way that complicate the process. It just doesn't strike me that you can reinvent someone's life with the wave of a magic wand.
Greene: Of course not. It isn't that easy. It's a whole extra load of hard work. Counselors aren't miracle workers. They can point the way, but they can't set it in concrete. The process can take a year or two to iron out. As they say, Rome wasn't built in a day.
Takahashi: I've noticed since I first went to work that people who spend most of their time on the job aren't necessarily more productive. The managers who don't put in constant overtime often seem to be more productive and cheerful than most workaholics. As one of them once said to me, why sit at your desk after hours just to look industrious when you could go home and mull over business maneuvers while you soak in the bathtub or play catch with the kids?
Greene: I plan to clinch a similar advantage in setting my counseling schedule. I'll have more time to spend with my teenage daughter. She's in the painful rite of passage from the onset of puberty to full-fledged adulthood. I want to be there for her with a lot more TLC.
Takahashi: Far be it from me to stand in your way. I'Il be dealing with my own teenagers one of these days. Best of luck to you.

L19-01
Takahashi Shuzo: I scanned a report in this morning's newspaper on  the upsurge in the number of wives and moms who work from home. It seems to be a tremendous trend. Are any of us involved?
Cora Heinrichs: Well, my mom is middle-aged, but since I was in diapers she's worked from home as a call center counselor for a life insurance company.
Paul Alvarez: My wife is likewise a working mom. She's an independent loan officer for a financial enterprise. In a typical day she seesaws between that and looking after our 3-year-old twins, reading them stories, whipping up lunch and tucking them in bed for afternoon naps. Conveniently, she can work and nurture in her pajamas.
Ida Fine: That strikes me as quite an agenda. People like us who work in nine-to-five offices don't realize how flexible a stay-at-home working mom has got to be to hold down a daily job while she minds the kids.
Takahashi: I understand that this new generation of mothers, who have chosen to stay at home but earn an income, are called mompreneurs They make up a labor pool that's popular with employers because they're locally based free agents.
Heinrichs: More than half of the wives or moms who work for my mom's employer have toddlers or school kids. When they're working and on the phone, though, they're expected to be professional. No kids or pets around.

L19-02
Fine: I can see that it requires a certain degree of discipline to be a work-at-home mom.
Heinrichs: Yes, and in reality, if you ask why they work, most of them would say they do it to buttress household income.
Alvarez: That figures. I wouldn't say I'm underpaid, but the cost of raising kids these days continues to shoot upward. A double household income is more of a must than a luxury, especially considering the nest egg that's got to grow to cover the rnushroom ing cost of college.
Fine: About 80 percent of work-at-home moms have some college education. They're free to set their working hours and most earn between $10 and $14 an hour. But you do have to manage your time very well. Also, some people have been preyed on by scam operations who try to get victims to send in money in order to do work oom home.
Alvarez: According to an online magazine that caters to their wants and needs, they make up a growing labor pool that benefits businesses by holding down employment costs a great deal.
Takahashi: I'm sure technology also lendis a helping hand. Working moms can take advantage of high-speed Internet access, as well as growing numbers of home computers. Home life and work life have become much alike. Working moms earn at home while kids do their school homework.

L19-03
Fine: For every working mother, managing childcare and business, whether full-time or part-time, is a juggling act. It comes down to how many hours you have for one or the other.
Alvarez: My wife says she chose to be a home-based free agent, and so holds no grudge against mothers who hold down full-time office positions. What works best is a personal decision in each household.
Fine: Of course, it should be that way. Even so, mothers who work full time away from home get hit by a lot of academic flak about debasing the importance of motherhood. And every mother, rich, poor or in between, wants to be the perfect mom. It's a common feeling at all social strata.
Takahashi: And I suppose it's also a common feeling in all countries around the globe. Taking potshots at working moms is beside the point if dads alone can't bring home the bacon needed to feed and raise a family to both parents' satisfaction.
Heinrichs: In addition to which, we still have persistent management discrimination against women in business who are facing the new fact of motherhood. After decades of legal challenges to the "glass ceiling" in the workplace, we're now fighting against what some sociologists have dubbed the "maternal wall."
Fine: In one highly publicized case I read about, there was a young school teacher who took maternity leave, gave birth, and came back to work.

L19-04
Fine: As a new mother, she was harangued by her school principal, who wanted her to quit. In the end, she lost her job in spite of excellent performance ratings.
Alvarez: I remember that. It caused a furor right here in LA when she took it to court and the story broke in the local media. Her boss testified that a young mother could not be counted on to maintain her excellent work record with an infant to care for at home.
Fine: That gave it the momentum to raise charges of discrimination. Doors opened to similar claims based on stereotyping mothers.
Alvarez: It was more than just gender discrimination. That type of discrimination is now called family responsibilities discrimination. It applies not only to pregnant women, and mothers and fathers of young children but also to employees with aging parents or sick spouses or partners.
Heinrichs: Right. They may be rejected for employment, demoted, harassed, passed over for promotion or terminated, despite good performance evaluations.
Takahashi: I can see how there's a need for legislation to give such people fair-and-square legal protection from losing their jobs. This particular war of the sexes is not simple. On the one hand, employers are obliged to insist that all employees shoulder their workloads. On the other hand, I can see the need for some kind of compromise to accommodate family responsibilities. How can we maintain a win-win situation for both parties?

L20-01
Ida Fine: My family had quite a surprise last night. My aunt and uncle came by. After 20 years of marriage they've decided to get a divorce. My father wasn't fazed, but my mother was bowled over.
Takahashi Shuzo: Why have they decided to split? Is it some kind of mid-life crisis?
Fine: Maybe so. Their kids are grown up and out on their own, so only the two of them are still living at home. Ever since they got hitched, they've bickered over this and that. He's a take-charge type who insists that his decisions are final and binding. She always felt shut out.
Paul Alvarez: What happened when she told him she was going out on her own?
Fine: Much to her surprise, he said so be it. He won't stand in her way. She filed for divorce the following morning. His and her lawyers are negotiating a life support settlement that will give her financial independence.
Cora Heinrichs: Independence may not be a bed of roses if she doesn't know how to cope with loneliness. Let's hope she can join a support group of merry divorcees. And who knows? Maybe she can meet Mr.Right this time and happily remarry.
Takahashi: Marriages don't last long if one or both partners are unhappy, Why did your aunt wait so long?

L20-02
Fine: I'm not sure, but in many cases, although the parents may be at odds both agree that the children are the glue that holds them together.
Takahashi: We have a similar idea in Japan. The children are the "hinge" of a marriage. When the kids have flown out of the nest, however, and the husband is facing retirement, there can be a marital crisis. Middle-aged wives don't want idle husbands hanging around the house expecting to be waited on hand and foot. After devoted childrearing, wives want the freedom to do as they please. That's why midlife divorce is on the rise in my homeland.
Heinrichs: Here too. The divoree rate for couples in their 50s is rising year by year. Marital security doesn't cut it if the marriage itself isn't good. They see many healthy and happy years ahead if they shed their marriages and get a fresh start on what they want for the rest of their lives.
Alvarez: What surprises me is that more middle-aged women than men are deciding on divorce. We tend to suppose that men decide to cut the that binds, but that's not true. Statistically, two-thirds of midlife divorce decisions are initiated by wives. In many cases their husbands didn't see it coming and then don't know how to respond to it.
Fine: More woemen than ever before, especially those who have busines experience, can look forward to rejoining the workforce. A new start can launch a new career.

L20-03
Fine: Added to that, many women in midlife are splitting up their marriages for a second time. They'd already divorced once before when much younger.
Takahashi: In the case of your aunt and uncle, you mentioned incompatibility as the leading reason to call it quits. How often does infidelity figure into it?
Heinrichs: Let me answer that. It was the reason my first marriage went down the drain. In talking to midlife divorcees, I'm told it may be a factor, but just as commonly they single out physical and emotional abuse or drug and alcohol abuse. Husbands over 50 simply say they fell out of love or had conflicting lifestyles.
Alvarez: I hear more men than women blame themselves, saying it was their own fault.
Fine: Another trend is the rising number of married couples who choose not to have children. Some of us wonder whether that's going to have negative impact on our population in the not-so-distant future.
Takahashi: I doubt it. In America, you can count on an increasing population from immigration. In Japan, on the other hand, there's a definite threat of declining population. Young married couples are committing to only one or two offspring. We're worried about the impact on our future workforce as that happens.
Heinrichs: My beau and I have decided to rule out children if we wed.

L20-04
Heinrichs: We both work full-time, and we have busy lives outside the workplace. Maybe that seems selfish, but we want to be devoted to each other and enjoy carefree living together.
Alvarez: That doesn't shock me coming from you, Cora, but it knocked my socks off when my sister said that. Most Hispanics are different. How can a household be happy without half a dozen kids to share life with?
Fine: Whatever perspective you put on it, increasing numbers of young couples are choosing childfree marriages. Their lives have other priorities. It's such a general trend that no-child support groups have sprung up all across this country.
Alvarez: I guess my sister had to go through a painful process to come to her personal decision. And she's still under constant bombardment to change her mind. Most members of our extended family won't take no for an answer.
Takahashi: Does your sister dislike children?
Heinrichs: Paul's sister is a kindergarten teacher. She's got her hands full with twenty 5-year-olds to nurture over a whole school year. With that many kids to care for, who needs more?
Fine: Other couples, who love kids but don't want to bear any, find plenty of chances to mingle with kids as community volunteers or by supporting charities that put them in touch with children around the world. They check this and that out and make their own personal choices.

L21-01
Takahashi Shuzo: It appears that our battle plan to counteract the Mexico City rumor has calmed things down.
Paul Aharez: Yes we seem to be in the clear. It's still a mystery to me how it mushroomed. First we get wind that we're moving the LA headquarters to Mexico City, Next the media, including blogs, are speculating on why.
David Wu: And that set off a new round of rumors of massive layoffs in the LA office to take advantage of cheaper labor and other operating costs sputh of the border. It's hard to credit.
Ida Fine: Im just glad that that internal memo was circulated to all headquarters employees stating that the rumors had no kernel of truth. We're not moving, Nobody is going to get laid off. But what did the trick was that statement released to a couple of Web sites that specialize in vetting rumors and reporting them to be true or false. I also liked the special phone line for concerned consumers who wanted to get our side of the story.
Takahashi: Unfortunately, on top of the Mexico rumor, Roy Kohn was in town at the same time, proposing Jeng shui to the board for a trendy new guide to office layout.
Wu: Right. And that kicked off the second round. As rumor had it, Brigtwell's floor plan was being Orientalized in view of a buyout offer from an Asian mutibillionaire. This time it started in-house, then went public. I was grinning and groaning at the same time. It was a harebrained rumor, but hilarious.

L21-02
Takahashi: Yeah, and once again memos were circulated to all concerned, saying that Brightwell is and will continue to be as American as apple pie. It's Brightwell's corporate policy to face all rumors head-on. It does us no good in the long run to do the ostrich maneuver. An organization can't simply stick its head in the sand and hope that what it doesn't see can't hurt it.
Fine: With the Internet running full speed ahead, misleading rumors can be spread worldwide in the blink of an eye. We're not dealing only with amateurish rumormongers. I heard that in a couple of the cases the legal staff investigated, they uncovered conspiracies by corporate rivals to smear Brightwell.
Wu: That's true. In one case we had a hoax on our hands. Some wise guy posted a con on Web sites claiming that Brightwell and a couple of dozen other well-known companies were handing out cash to people who sent promotional messages for products to their friends and acquaintances
Takahashi: What a flood of claims that brought on! But of course no payments were made. Again, competing companies were pulling the strings. It was intended to discredit the integrity of Brightwell and the other companies involved.
Alvarez: Effective counterattacks require walking a fine line between seeming to react too little or too much. Silence is not always golden. It can imply guilt.

L21-03
Alvarez: While hemming and hawing may be seen as skirting the issue, playing rough and tough may make us sound like the big bad wolf.
Fine: Bright well is a company at work around the world. I'm afraid what can be said here may raise hackles in other countries. Different cultures have different standards of appropriate responses to troubling rumors.
Wu: Well, lda, that's why we vet our proposed responses through the offshore offices. The feedbacte we get shows how it should be modified for best effect in each particular region.
Takahashi: I've heard that even companies that are smart enough to field phone calls from concerned consumers may be dumb enough to ignore incoming e mail. When consumer e-mail sincerely asks about product safety, for instance, that's a warning signal. If you don't reply with the facts or don't bother to respond at all, rumors fly and you may lose customers permanently.
Alvarez: Jean Teasdale, one of this year's interns, cited a survey she did on rumors affecting customer relations at a couple dozen companies. She concluded that most companies don't give a damn about refuting rumors that have rattled consumers.
Fine: That's whiat I call a sery scenario as well as a wake-up call. If public relations doesn't include electronic consumer relations via the Net, the sword of Damocles is dangling overhead.


L21-04
Fine: I've noticed that if you don't feed accurate information to concerned consumers, they usually conclude that inaccurate Web info is, after all, correct.
Wu: Yeah. We want the rumor mill to work for us, not against us. The chief reason for rumors is confusion about what's true or not. Why did Brightwell decide on feng shui? What else is going on behind the scenes that the general public has a right to know about?
Fine: I do know that some functions, such as retail marketing and investor relations, probably will be shifted to Seattle and New York in the near future. But we're already prepared to deal with that when it's time to go public.
Takahashi: So you see, many rumors have a kernel of truth. That's what makes them plausible. It's like the old telephone game. You know, the one where you sit in a circle and the first person whispers a message into the next person's ear and so on. By the time the last person whispers it back to the first person, it's inevitably garbled. That's how a bit of true info gets bent out of shape in the rumor mill.
Alvarez: Brightwell is a hotbed of internal as well as external rumors. The system to keep all employees informed of what's going on inside Brightwell is intended to nip any potential rumors in the bud, and usually does. The new office layout was duly reported to headquarters staff, but internal chitchat wasn't monitored. That's how it got out of hand and mangled in the rumor mill.

L22-01
Ida Fine: It looks like we hit the spot with some old products we phased out a long time ago. Out of the blue, a number of consumers in the boomer generation visited our Web site with a nostalgic longing for old favorites they'd enjoyed in their childhood.
Takahashi Shuzo: Right. That's what provoked Product Development to put on their thinking caps. In a slumping market, new products may have a tough time winning a place in the sun. So why not satisfy consumers by reviving some of the popular products from the good ol' days?
Cora Heinrichs: That sure did the trick. Yesteryear Yogurt won kudos with basically the same old-fashioned package design that boomers recognized nostalgically. It pulled at their heartstrings.
Paul Alvarez: Another bright idea was posting an invitation to boomer blog editors to visit our test kitchen, taste the new old product line and give us candid comments. Citrus flavors seem to be out of favor. Development dropped lemon, lime and orange from the lineup and added three other berries no one had thought of the first time around.
Fine: Similar creative consumer feedback is teaching the fast-food industry what's going to go boom or bust on breakfast menus. Breakfast is the most important meal of most people's day. Now, after too many years of expanding too fast, the fast-food chains are in a slump and have begun to wake up and smell the coffee.

L22-02
Takahashi: I'll say. Overall, U.S. fast food is a $200 billion market. But income from lunch and dinner markets has flattened out, so competition has shifted to breakfast.
Heinrichs: As the breakfast market continues to heat up, so will competition. The winners will have the most popular products, but how do they find out what's going to ring the bell? If we were in their shoes, we'd be looking to consumers to feed us creative input on what they want to see on breakfast menus.
Fine: You know, many other industries could benefit from interaction with creative consumers to come up with new product ideas and innovations. All companies need to do is ask or at least let people know the door is wide open for comment. Consumer input can be a critical factor in product design ranging from locking devices to medical instruments.
Heinrichs: In the past, manufacturers consulted R&D labs and academic institutes for new ideas leading to new products. Ordinary consumers were not in the loop. That's no longer commonplace. More and more companies have profited enormously from innovative customer commentaries.
Alvarez: It sounds like the customer is king, and that's not only in the role of a sales target. Nowadays, the customer may have an actual say in market research, R&D and product development, as well. Research experts have pointed out user contributions in hundreds of product fields from sports gear to scientific instruments.

L22-03
Alvarez: What's different now is the upgrowth of whole online communities that have access to power-packed design tools that are easy to put to work.
Fine: Yes, I was fascinated by a toy manufacturer that posted a toolkit online for a proposed line of robot dogs and cats that could bark and mew on finger pad command. Around a thousand hackers accessed the toolkit and responded to the prototype design, suggesting synthetic fur, the ability to sit up or roll over and small wheels to move back and forth. Their input stimulated operating system redesign.
Alvarez: Did the hackers get paid for their ideas? 
Fine: No. And that's exactly the point. They didn't get paid and didn't care. They were delighted to have a chance to demonstrate their creativity.
Takahashi: I read about an upscale automaker that got a lot of hacker feedback from the toolkit it posted on its Web site. The technical design team was so intrigued that a couple dozen savvy hackers were invited to the head office to chew the fat with the engineers. Their reward wasn't cash but a chance to chitchat.
Alvarez: Many businesses now count on consistently innovative customers as an outside cadre attached to the corporate design department. They're called "lead users or "luminaries" and tend to be groups of experts from a vast range of professional fields.

L22-04
Fine: I know that quite a few of them are present or future leaders in their career fields or gifted amateurs eager to fill a need in some vocation other than their own. Their reward is seeing their creative recommendations metamorphose into manufactured realities.
Takahashi: Still, experts in historical innovation are prone to point out that creative consumers are not a modern phenomenon. Giant corporations did not invent the first wheel or produce the first automobiles. People who actually use products are their most informed and foremost critics. If companies don't lend an ear to consumers' complaints or brainstorms, innovation may creep along at a snail's pace.
Heinrichs: That's right. Consumer innovation has always been with us. Independent researchers and inventors are often more ingenious than corporate teams. Think of the steam engine, electric light bulb or smallpox vaccine. Whenever you wonder why we don't have this or that, you're hoping someone else will not only wish for it but get down to business and do something about it.
Alvarez: Expressing a wish to a manufacturer may be the catalyst for that to happen. You don't necessarily need to have inventive talent yourself to get ball rolling. Just bring the subject up by e-mail or with a call to the appropriate corporate call center. Simply raising an idea as a question is the earmark of a creative consumer.
Fine: Better yet, go to a seance and have a creative chat with Thomas Edison! [Chuckles]

L23-01
Takahashi Shuzo: As you know, I took time out yesterday to visit the test kitchens. Guess what they're up to? With the successful launch of Yesteryear Yogurt, our trend spotters recommended we also revive other products that were retired quite some time ago.
Ida Fine: Ive heard the scuttlebutt that's going around the industry. In a wider context, there's a craze for old favorites in many areas, much the same as the soaring consumer yearning for old-fashioned yogurt, as Shuzo mentioned.
David Wu: Apparently, we're going to follow the yogurt up with a revivified line of Brightwell's classic breakfast cereals. The original packaging will be duplicated with the same old-time cartoon characters, but the new lineup will be dubbed something like Yesteryear Breakfast Cereal.
Cora Heinrichs: Yeah, that's what I've heard. I'm glad to report that sales of Yesteryear Yogurt are superheated, but unfortunately, so are competitors' sales. Food and drink purveyors across the board are frantic to cash in on the retro boom.
Fine: Retro is definitely a trend that's been spotted. Food and drink makers are scrambling to shake the dust off old Togos, mascots and slogans to recreate the "good ol days" for a new generation of nostalgic consumers.
Heinrichs: Everyone's seeing the consumer pursuit of anything vintage or classic in a wide variety of markets.

L23-02
Heinrichs: It isn't surprising that all sorts of businesses are bustling to cash in on the trend. Make hay while the sun shines!
Wu: Resurrected fashion lines reflect that, as well. Will we see the comeback of cummerbunds?
Takahashi: Probably not, but a brand's history and tradition can be a useful sales tool. Popular heritage has a powerful consumer appeal. It can stand out head and shoulders above callow newcomers in just about any business field.
Wu: I learned quite a lot about trend spotting at that seminar last month. At first I was puzzled, because the person at the lectern was a trend spotter in the greeting card industry. What did that have to do with Brightwell Parms? I soon found out.
Fine: Didn't we all! I was amazed that most of what she said was relevant to any kind of consumer driven business. She started off by describing an exploratory tour of high end shops on Fifth Avenue. She didn't buy much, because she wasn't shopping as such. Her eye was on the future. 
Wu: As I remember it, she was focused on colors and textures that could set trends for greeting cards. She was more interested in coming up with questions rather than answers.
Takahashi: That's right. She doesn't just look at and touch what catches her eye. She chats with the sales clerks at stores, asking about the colors, textures and designs most popular with customers.

L23-03
Takahashi: She takes notes and photographs accordingly. Her entire team of trend spotters sets up displays twice a year in a trend room at the company's headquarters. Artists, writers and designers come by to see what's new under the sun.
Fine: Of course, store-hopping isn't the only source of inspiration. Trend spotters also monitor radio, TV and other media to see what's going on. Which trends are emerging or continuing? Even fads like tattoos or nose rings may show up on greeting cards if the trend is a hot topic for older teens.
Wu: Trend spotters have their eyes and ears wide open 24/7. Inspiration may rise up in dreams or by listening to people on commuter bus rides.
Takahashi: I talked to one of our researchers who taps into the teer market by asking her daughter's peers what food and drink fads are going on in high-school circles. The kid is a kind of listening post and news reporter for her generation. Her mother gets one scoop after another.
Heinrichs: Here in LA we've got experts who constantly monitor what's cropping up in Hollywood. That's where a lot of Angelinos get a foretast of what's coming down on the fashion and other frontlines. Who's wearing or toting what? Which eateries are hot and why? The movie stars often set off sweeping trends without even thinking about it.

L23-04
Takahashi: Trend spotters are on the prowl just about everywhere. They like to see themselves as catalysts, setting off new and different ways of making statements in words and pictures.
Fine: Didn't she admit that some experimental greeting cards fizzle out? I seem to remember the original divorce card, modeled on the wedding card, was an absolute disaster back in the early '70s. It was intended to be trendy, but such cute and humorous messages were not welcome.
Wu: I can see why it didn't get off the ground back then, even if the friendly message was sympathetic. Nowadays, with the racing divorce rate, people take divorce in stride. A sincere card can be a touch of comfort.
Takahashi: I recall that our speaker said one and a half times more Mother's Day than Father's Day cards were sent this year-something like 95 million versus 150 million. No wonder. You might hear people asking, "When is Mother's Day?" But when it comes to Father's Day, you'd only hear "When was Father's Day?" [Laughter]
Heinrichs: Oh, Shuzo, you can take heart. The difference doesn't mean fathers are loved any less. It's because women are the primary purchasers of greeting cards. People in the know say that women tend to buy cards for all the mothers in their lives-their own mothers, grandmas and aunts, mothers-in-daw. For Father's Day, they purchase cards for a smaller circle of family members.


L24-01
Takahashi Shuzo: Ms. Rice, please come in. Take a seat and make yourself comfortable. Would you like something to drink?
Rita Rice: Thank you. May I help myself to a cup of coffee?
Takahashi: Let me pour. Cream and sugar?
Rice: I like it black. Thank you I'm ready for questions.
Takahashi: All right. Tell us who you are and why you're here.
Rice: My name is Rita Rice and, as you can see from my resume I was public relations manager at one of Brightwell's competitors. Before that, I was a food reporter with the L.A Times. I submitted my resignation just about a month ago and am looking for a suitable job. That's why I'm here.
Takahashi: May I ask why you decided to resign?
Rice: I was stuck in my position. It wasn't a glass ceiling kind of thing. There was simply no job opening higher up. So I decided it was time to explore new opportunities.
Takahashi: But why Brightwell? Why do you want to work here?
Rice: Inm not just looking for another paycheck. I enjoy my work as a public relations professional and am proud of it. Your company is known to be a great company. I think I would fit in well with your team.
Takahashi: I see. As Brightwell's business continues to expand, we're eagar to bring new talent on board. Your qualifications in media relations and campaign strategy development are very impressive.

L24-02
Takahashi: What do you perceive as your professional strengths?
Rice: I'm passionate about the campaigns I design. I turn things I've done upside down and shake them around to see if something new and  different comes to mind.
Takahashi: In any business position, what do you personally fear most?
Rice: Boredom. Women like me don't face much, if any, discrimination in most major corporations these days. For instance, it's easy nowadays to adjust work schedules in line with homecare pressures. What I can't stand is boredom and frustration in a fixed position. I think men can better grin and bear work situations they're not happy with. Women, me included, aren't as likely to sit back and relax. We can't stand stagnant situations. We mutter and protest.
Takahashi: From what I've heard, many of the major corporations still don't know how to deal with female executives who have high hopes and potential. A few of the industrial giants are sitting up to listen to the wake-up call and are taking corrective action. New programs that meet the expectations of high-powered women are now in place.
Rice: And those corporations are reaping the appropriate rewards. Women who bail out of less enlightened corporations are now swelling the corporate ranks of companies that offer new opportunities.

L24-03
Rice: That's one reason I was attracted to Brightwell. Your door is wide open.
Takahashi: Brightwell is rightfully concerned about equal opportunity for men and women. We all want to feel valued. Where there's a vacuum instead of a pat on the back, how can you know where you stand?
Rice: My sentiments, exactly. Women have as much ambition as men to get to the top of the ladder. One of Brightwell's brightest ideas in the past few years was the program to train women to manage time. Those of us who need to cope with homecare pressures can fit into flexible line schedules in which we're responsible for the marketing success of a particular product.
Takahashi: Of all the people you've been associated with, whom did you dislike most? Why?
Rice: Let me see. Slackers and slowpokes, I suppose. They may pretend to be busy but nothing much gets done. I detest that kind of mindset. I wonder what they see when they look in the mirror.
Takahashi: If you were me, why would you hire yourself?
Rice: I may not be diplomatic, but I'm constantly honest. I tell it like it is. I set high standards for myself and for my team. My creative commitments extend from new campaigns to opportunities to build new business programs.
Takahashi: Now let's turn the table and see if you have any questions you'd like to ask me.


