(1)
Peter Neeson:Gabby, these facts and figures on cat and dog blood donations are absolutely fascinating. I didn't know there were four national animal blood banks. Gabby Mann: I didn't either. Chow Down told me about the blood donor program. They're eager to be the commercial sponsor for a nationwide blood drive, so M&B surfed the Netdod pertinent information. The blood banks are there, but sadly, there is not enough blood to treat all dogs and cats in critical condition. All four of the blood banks have back orders from veterinary clinics on waiting lists of six to eight weeks for dog and cat plasma.
Ohtaki Reiji:Clinics are running local blood drives of their own, but there's still not enough blood to go around. Pet owners are more than I willing to shell out small fortunes for treatments, including blood transfusions, but if a clinic doesn't have an ample blood supply, that dog or cat on the operating table may not survive.
Anita Sanchez:I see that California has the largest animal blood bank. It supplies 3,000 clinics in North America with up to 2,000 units a month. Even so, dogs that need blood outnumber those able to donate.
Neeson:I can see why. Only five percent of all dogs can meet the donor criteria.

(2)
Neeson:To qualify, they need to be vaccinated and disease-free. Size is also important. A golden retriever, for instance, can donate a pint of blood with no problem, but you can't draw a whole pint from a cocker spaniel. Mann: A leading reason for the shortage is that vet clinics and hospitals are doing more treatments. People often treat pets as members of the family When Spot needs to go under the knife, he matters as much as a child to his household, no matter how much it costs to give him a new "leash" on life.
Ohtaki:That can take a big bite out of the owner's bank account. Some people will pay $25,000 for a kidney transplant for their pet.
Sanchez:That's just the tip of the iceberg. Some owners fork out $1,000 a week for dialysis treatments. If Fido needs braces or jaw surgery to improve his bite, we're talking five figures. Now that's what I call "puppy love."
Neeson:There's no doubt in my mind that healthcare for pets is a growth industry. We have a host of new technologies for medical care and a rising number of pet healthcare insurance policies. Owners will go over the top to keep their pets in fine fettle. It says here that cancer treatments alone have shot up 50 percent in the past three years.

(3)
Mann: There is an active debate among pet care specialists concerning some treatments. A number of critics in the know contend that vets tend to prescribe high-priced treatments that do next to nothing to benefit a pet's quality of life.
Neeson:Here on page two, we're told that we have chiropractors certified to treat pets and their owners. The number of certified pet dentists is also rising. Animal hospitals now provide counseling so pet owners can make informed decisions before they give the nod to treatments costing hundreds or thousands of dollars.
Mann: At any rate, we can't equate today's companion animals with yesterday's pets. Twenty years ago, vets were more likely to recommend putting sick pets to sleep, but owners won't stand for that now. They form such a close bond with their pets that euthanasia ceases to be an option. In some cases, owners have a real dependence on companion animals such as seeingye and service dogs. Apart from that, there are studies that endorse the extra health benefits of keeping pets among people of all ages.
Ohtaki:The only pets at my house live in a tropical aquarium. However, my kids are enrolled in a school pet-care program. They have chances to bond with hamsters and rabbits. They came home in tears last month after one of the rabbits died. There was a short burial service the next morning.

(4)
Sanchez:The death of a pet is often the first time kids have to face fact all living things eventually die. I was seven when our family died. My mother was devastated. She loved that cat. Without a word my father took the cat to a taxidermist. A month later, Max was back in his favorite spot. We knew he was dead, but he looked so alive. His bright eyes were really eerie.
Neeson:Taxidermy used to be the most popular option for people who couldn't let go of a favorite pet. Recently, though, pet owners who can't accept pet loss are having their pets freeze-dried. It's quicker and much less expensive.
Sanchez:Most animal lovers are opposed to freeze-drying pets. They think it's gross.
Neeson:Did you hear about the dispute on the subject of whether pets go to heaven? Around 40 percent say, yes, pets go to heaven. But another 40 percent insist that heaven is for people only. When you come right down to it, we won't know for sure until we kick the bucket. Mann: You've got a point. By the way, have any of you seen some of the Web sites that provide comfort to people who've just lost a pet? I found one that provides expert/bereavement counseling on pet loss. Grieving pet lovers can sign up as members to visit chat rooms, receive private e-mail, and attend seminars and workshops.

